ABDICATE|13|v. give up, renounce, disclaim, waive, disown, surrender, yield, relinquish, abandon, resign, quit: He abdicated all responsibility for care of the children. She abdicated the throne to marry a commoner.
ABEYANCE|15|n. in abeyance. pending, abeyant, reserved, in reserve, shelved, pushed or shoved or shunted aside, postponed, put off, suspended, US tabled; temporarily inactive, dormant; latent; Colloq in a holding pattern, on the back burner; Slang on hold, in the deep-freeze, on the shelf, on ice, hanging fire: Legal proceedings were held in abeyance so that talks could take place to reach an out-of-court settlement.
ABNORMAL|12|adj. 1 deviant, deviating, irregular, unusual, unconventional, aberrant, Psych jargon exceptional: The wing of a bat is an abnormal structure. 2 peculiar, unusual, odd, strange, queer, freakish, unnatural, extraordinary, weird, eccentric, bizarre, anomalous, aberrant, perverse, deviant, irregular, Colloq offbeat, Slang oddball, kinky, weirdo: They certainly make the contestants on that TV show do some very abnormal things.
ABSORBED|13|adj. engrossed, lost, wrapped up, occupied, engaged, immersed, buried, preoccupied, concentrating, rapt: He was absorbed in his reading.
ABSTRACT|12|adj. 1 theoretical, unapplied, notional, ideational, conceptual, metaphysical, unpractical, intellectual: It is difficult to capture abstract ideas on paper. 2 non-representational, symbolic, non-realistic: Museums began buying abstract art in the 1930s. --n. 3 summary, epitome, synopsis, essence, digest, condensation, survey, conspectus, extract; outline, pr÷cis, r÷sum÷: By reading the abstracts, you can determine which articles merit reading in full. --v. 4 epitomize, abbreviate, digest, summarize, condense, shorten, abridge, cut, cut down, US synopsize: The service abstracts articles that appear in scientific journals.
ABUNDANT|11|adj. 1 plentiful, overflowing, ample, copious, over-sufficient, superabundant, plenteous, profuse, inexhaustible, replete, bountiful, bounteous: The abundant rainfall fills the reservoirs every day. 2 abounding (in), full (of), rich (in), luxuriant, lavish: We know a stream that is abundant in trout. The abundant vegetation of the rain forest is an ecological wonder.
ACADEMIC|15|adj. 1 scholastic, collegiate; scholarly, learned, lettered, erudite: Green's academic background qualifies him for the professorship. The university began publishing academic journals in the 19th century. 2 theoretical, hypothetical, conjectural, speculative, abstract; ivory-tower, visionary, idealistic; impractical, unrealistic, unpractical: The car doesn't run, so the question of miles per gallon is purely academic.
ACCIDENT|7|n. 1 mishap, misfortune, mischance, misadventure, blunder, mistake; casualty, disaster, catastrophe, calamity: A high percentage of the road accidents were caused by drunken drivers. 2 chance, fortune, luck, fortuity, fluke; serendipity: I came across the gold ring by accident, when cleaning out a disused cupboard. 3 non-essential, accessory or accessary, extra, addition: Melancholy is an almost inseparable accident of old age.
ACCURACY|11|n. exactness, correctness, Loosely precision, preciseness: The translation from the Greek has been accomplished with great accuracy. Rifling the inside of the barrel of a firearm increases its accuracy.
ACCURATE|6|adj. 1 exact, correct, error-free, precise: She gave an accurate description of the events. There is a nice distinction between 'accurate' and 'precise'. 2 careful, meticulous, nice, with an eye to or for detail, scrupulous, conscientious: Marvin is a very accurate typist. 3 unerring, on target, Colloq on the mark, spot on (target): This rifle is accurate if you allow for the wind.
ACCUSTOM|8|v. familiarize, acquaint, habituate, train, season; acclimatize or acclimate: Start off by wearing your contact lenses for an hour at a time in order to accustom your eyes to them. She soon accustomed herself to the new surroundings.
ACQUAINT|8|n. acquaint with. familiarize with, inform of or about, make aware of, apprise of, advise of: The management requires employees to acquaint themselves with the safety rules.
ACTIVATE|13|v. move, actuate, set in motion, get started, energize, get or set going, start, initiate, switch or turn on, trigger; motivate, rouse, arouse, prompt, stimulate, stir, mobilize, animate, impel, galvanize, Colloq US light a fire under: The sensor in the pavement activates the traffic signal. Her enthusiasm activated him to go into business for himself.
ACTIVITY|16|n. 1 action, movement, motion, vigour, vim, energy, liveliness, bustle: Last week there wasn't much activity in the stock market. 2 pursuit, occupation, vocation, work, function, operation, job, labour, endeavour, enterprise, project, undertaking, venture, interest: What sort of business activity are you engaged in?
ACTUALLY|11|adv. really, in reality, in fact, in actuality, in point of fact, in truth, absolutely, as a matter of fact, indeed, truly, literally: The interest rates actually charged by banks may vary from those quoted publicly.
ADDITION|6|n. 1 adding, joining, putting together, uniting, combining: The addition of this paragraph is uncalled for. 2 totalling, adding up, summing-up, summation, counting up, reckoning, totting up: You have made an error in addition. 3 addendum, appendix, appendage, supplement, increment, augmentation, extension: This addition contributes nothing to the manuscript. 4 extension, ell, Brit annexe, US annex, wing: We used our lottery winnings to pay for an addition to the house. --prep. 5 in addition to. as well as, besides, beyond, over and above: In addition to books, the shop sold greetings cards. ---adv.phr. 6 in addition. moreover, furthermore, additionally, besides, withal, to boot, in or into the bargain, too, also, as well: We were compelled to exercise every morning and in addition we went for a ten-mile run each Saturday.
ADEQUATE|7|adj. 1 sufficient, enough, ample; satisfactory, fitting, equal, suitable: Is there language adequate to describe my feelings? 2 passable, fair, fair to middling, middling, average, tolerable, (barely) acceptable, (barely) satisfactory, all right, competent, not (at all) bad, so so , Colloq OK or okay, up to snuff, not that or too bad, no great shakes: The music was good, the band only adequate. 3 equal, suitable, suited, fitted, up, proper, qualified, competent, good enough: Johnson was unsure that he was adequate to the task at hand.
ADORABLE|6|adj. lovable, beloved, loved, darling, sweet, dear; delightful, appealing, attractive, charming, captivating, fetching: To look at him now, it is hard to imagine what an adorable child he once was.
ADVISORY|15|adj. 1 consultive, consultative, counselling, hortatory, monitory, admonitory, Technical parónetic(al): Our firm has been engaged in an advisory capacity on the privatization of the utility companies. --n. 2 bulletin, notice, warning, admonition, prediction: The Weather Office has issued a storm advisory for the weekend.
ADVOCATE|14|v. 1 support, champion, back, endorse, uphold, recommend, stand behind, second, favour, speak or plead or argue for or in favour of: Don't you advocate the policies of the Party? --n. 2 supporter, champion, backer, upholder, second, exponent, proponent, patron, defender, apologist: She is an enthusiastic advocate of free speech. 3 lawyer, counsel; intercessor; Brit barrister, solicitor, US attorney, counselor-at-law: The advocate for the opposition is not in court.
AESTHETE|6|n. connoisseur, art-lover, lover of beauty, aesthetician or esthetician, US tastemaker: It was the aesthetes who set the standard for the art purchased by the museum.
AFFECTED|9|adj. 1 unnatural, artificial, specious, stilted, stiff, studied, awkward, non-natural, contrived, mannered: Dryden found Shakespeare's style stiff and affected. 2 pretended, simulated, hollow, assumed, feigned, fake, faked, false, counterfeit, insincere, spurious, sham, bogus, Colloq phoney or US also phony: The heir's affected grief concealed his secret exultation. 3 pretentious, pompous, high-sounding, mincing, niminy-piminy, Colloq la-di-da orlah-di-dah or la-de-da: Oliver's affected airs were enough to make his classmates detest him. 4 attacked, seized, afflicted, stricken, gripped, touched; diseased, laid hold of: Her affected lungs never quite recovered. 5 afflicted, moved, touched, stirred, distressed, troubled, upset, hurt; influenced, swayed, impressed, struck, played or worked or acted upon: Many affected theatre-goers enjoyed her performances.
AFFINITY|9|n. 1 relationship, kinship, closeness, alliance, connection or Brit connexion; sympathy, rapport: He felt an affinity with other redheaded people. 2 friendliness, fondness, liking, leaning, bent, inclination, taste, partiality, attractiveness, attraction: I have an affinity for the sea.
AGITATED|10|adj. moved, stirred (up), shaken (up), rattled, disturbed, upset, nervous, perturbed, jittery, jumpy, uneasy, ill at ease, fidgety, disquieted, discomfited, ruffled, flustered, unsettled, unnerved, wrought up, discomposed, disconcerted, aroused, roused, excited, Colloq discombobulated: The sheriff was in a very agitated state about the mob forming outside the jail.
AGITATOR|9|n. activist, rabble-rouser, incendiary, agent provocateur, insurrectionist, troublemaker, demagogue, firebrand: The opposition party hires professional agitators to incite the people to riot.
ALIENATE|8|v. Usually, alienate from. disabuse (of or from), wean away (from), detach (from), distance (from): Gradually the villagers were alienated from their old animistic beliefs.
ALLIANCE|8|n. 1 union, confederation, combination, federation, pact, league, association, coalition, affiliation, connection, bond; unity, affinity: The alliance between the two empires has been faithfully maintained. 2 marriage, affinity: The alliance between the two families was welded by the children born of it.
ALTRUISM|10|n. selflessness, self-sacrifice, unselfishness, philanthropy, generosity, charity, charitableness, humanitarianism, humaneness, benevolence, humanity, public-spiritedness: Nick does things for others out of altruism, expecting nothing in return.
AMBITION|12|n. 1 hunger, thirst, craving, appetite, arrivisme: John's relentless ambition may yet be his undoing. 2 drive, enterprise, energy, initiative, vigour, enthusiasm, zeal, avidity, Colloq get-up-and-go: The company is seeking young men of ambition. You'll never get anywhere, Stewart, since you are totally lacking in ambition. 3 goal, object, aim, aspiration, hope, desire, dream, objective, wish, purpose: It is Olivia's ambition to marry someone with a title.
AMICABLE|9|adj. friendly, amiable, congenial, harmonious, brotherly, kind-hearted; warm, courteous, cordial, polite, civil, pleasant; peaceful, peaceable: Our countries have always enjoyed the most amicable relations.
ANALYSIS|11|n. 1 examination, investigation, study, scrutiny, enquiry or inquiry, dissection, assay, breakdown, division: The analysis has shown the presence of arsenic in her soup. 2 interpretation, opinion, judgement, criticism, critique; review: She disagrees with our analysis of the poem.
ANIMATED|11|adj. 1 lively, quick, spirited, active, vivacious, energetic, vigorous, excited, ebullient, enthusiastic, dynamic, vibrant, ardent, enlivened, passionate, impassioned, fervent: In the corner, Terence was engaged in an animated conversation with Mary. 2 mechanical, automated, lifelike, moving: Each Christmas, the shop has an animated window display.
ANNOUNCE|8|v. 1 proclaim, make public, make known, set or put forth, put out, publish, advertise, publicize, promulgate, broadcast, herald; circulate; tell, reveal, disclose, divulge, declare, propound: The appointment of a new prime minister has been announced. 2 intimate, suggest, hint at, signal: The sight of a top hat announced Gordon's presence in the club. 3 declare, tell, state, aver, assert, asseverate; notify; confirm: The president announced that he was resigning because of the scandal. 4 foretell, betoken, augur, portend, presage, harbinger, herald, signal; precede: The sighting of the first crocus announces spring.
ANTIDOTE|9|n. antitoxin, antiserum, antivenin; counteractant, counterirritant; cure, remedy, specific; medication, medicine, drug, medicament, Technical alexipharmic: The old prospector says that the best antidote against snakebite is whisky.
APERTURE|10|n. opening, space, gap, cleft, chink, crevice, crack, fissure, hole, chasm: As much water ran through as the aperture could accommodate.
APPARENT|6|adj. 1 evident, plain, clear, obvious, patent, unmistakable; conspicuous, marked, manifest, visible, discernible: It was apparent to all of us that she would become a successful opera singer. 2 appearing, seeming, illusory, ostensible, superficial, outward: In an apparent show of strength, he ordered his forces to attack the capital.
APPETITE|6|n. 1 desire, inclination, proclivity, tendency, disposition, bent, preference, liking, predilection, zest, fondness, love, zeal; enthusiasm; taste, relish; Formal appetency, appetence: I have never lost my appetite for chocolate. They tried to suppress their bodily appetites, such as hunger and lust. 2 craving, hunger, thirst, desire, keenness, hankering, yearning, longing, passion, demand, Formal edacity: She developed an insatiable appetite for reading.
APPLAUSE|6|n. clapping, acclamation, acclaim, ÷clat; cheering, cheers; approval, commendation, approbation, praise, kudos, plaudit(s): At the curtain there was applause from the audience.
APPROACH|4|v. 1 near, advance, draw or come near or nearer or close or closer, Formal come nigh: Claude approached the table. As night approached, the sky darkened. With approaching manhood, you must take on more responsibilities. 2 approximate, nearly equal, come close to, compare with: The total is beginning to approach your estimate. 3 make advances or overtures to, proposition, propose to, sound out, make (a) proposal to, solicit, Colloq chat up: Theo makes mincemeat of any man who tries to approach his daughter. --n. 4 approaches. advances, overtures, proposals, propositions: Michelle had no intention of discouraging Pierre's approaches. 5 access, passage, way, path, course; entry: The approach to the house was overgrown with brambles. 6 advance, movement: Our approach to the gates was being watched very carefully. 7 method, procedure, modus operandi, way, technique, style, manner, attitude, Slang US MO (= 'modus operandi'): Our approach in dealing with the problem is different.
APPROVAL|9|n. sanction, approbation, blessing, consent, agreement, concurrence; endorsement, acceptance, imprimatur, affirmation, ÷clat, confirmation, mandate, authorization; licence, leave, permission, rubber stamp, Colloq OK, okay, go-ahead, green light: I don't think that the plan will meet with the committee's approval. We gave our approval to proceed.
APTITUDE|11|n. 1 fitness, suitability, appropriateness, relevance, applicability, suitableness, aptness: One need only look at an albatross in the air to appreciate its aptitude for flight. 2 tendency, propensity, disposition, predilection, bent, proclivity; talent, gift, ability, capability, facility, faculty, flair: Helen displays a natural aptitude for the violin. 3 intelligence, quick-wittedness, intellect; capacity, aptness: The aptitude of that new student sets her apart from the others in the class.
AROMATIC|12|adj. fragrant, spicy, perfumed, savoury, pungent: A most agreeable scent came from a bowl of aromatic herbs.
ARROGANT|7|adj. 1 presumptuous, assuming, self-assertive, conceited, egotistical, pompous, superior, brazen, bumptious, cavalier: It would be most arrogant of me to take for myself the glory that rightfully belongs to the whole team. 2 haughty, overbearing, imperious, high-handed, overweening, disdainful, contemptuous, scornful, snobbish, supercilious, lofty, swaggering , Brit toffee-nosed; Colloq uppity, on one's high horse, high and mighty, snotty: Since her husband was made a company director, she's become unbearably arrogant.
ARTIFICE|13|n. 1 skill, cunning, trickery, craft, craftiness, artfulness, guile, duplicity, deception, chicanery, underhandedness, shrewdness, slyness, wiliness, trickiness: He used artifice to get control of the firm. 2 stratagem, device, manoeuvre, trick, contrivance, wile, ruse, subterfuge, expedient, contrivance, Colloq dodge: They were deluded by artifices to cheat them out of their money.
ASSEMBLE|5|v. 1 convene, gather, call or bring or get together, convoke, summon, muster, marshal, rally, levy, round up, collect, congregate, forgather or foregather; meet: The forces were assembled along the waterfront. A small crowd assembled at the airport. 2 accumulate, gather, amass, collect, bring or group or lump together, compile, unite, join or draw together: The paintings were assembled from many sources. 3 construct, put together, erect, set up, fit or join or piece together, connect, fabricate, manufacture, make: The sculpture was assembled from so-called objets trouv÷s , or 'found' objects.
ASSEMBLY|13|n. 1 gathering, group, meeting, assemblage, body, circle, company, congregation, flock, crowd, throng, multitude, host; horde: A huge assembly of well-wishers greeted the candidate. 2 convocation, council, convention, congress, association, conclave; diet, synod: The assembly voted to re-elect the incumbent officers. 3 construction, putting together, erection, connection, setting up, set-up, fitting or joining or piecing together, fabrication; manufacture, making: Assembly of the bicycle can be completed in an hour.
ASTONISH|6|v. amaze, surprise, shock, astound, stun, stagger, dumbfound or dumfound, bowl over, floor, stupefy, daze, Colloq flabbergast: She astonished the audience with her gymnastic skill. I was astonished when told my wife had given birth to quintuplets.
ATROCITY|9|n. 1 enormity, wickedness, flagitiousness, iniquity, infamy, cruelty, heinousness, horror, evil, inhumanity, barbarity, savagery: The atrocity of the 'Final Solution' was a well-kept secret during the war. 2 evil, outrage, crime, villainy, offence: She could not listen when the prosecutor read a list of the atrocities perpetrated at the camp.
ATTACHED|5|adj. 1 connected, joined, Brit seconded: She has been attached to the Foreign Office for many years. 2 united, fastened, fixed: The knob attached to the outside of the door might come off. 3 Often, attached to. devoted (to), partial (to), fond (of), devoted (to): I feel closely attached to her. I became attached to the painting and did not wish to sell it. 4 spoken for, married, unavailable, engaged, betrothed: I would have asked Suzanne out, but I gather she's attached.
ATTITUDE|7|n. 1 posture, position, disposition, stance, bearing, carriage, aspect, demeanour: The attitude of the figures in the sculpture was one of supplication. 2 posture, position, disposition, opinion, feeling, view, point of view, viewpoint, approach, leaning, thought, inclination, bent, tendency, orientation: What is your attitude towards the situation in South Africa?
AUSPICES|12|n. aegis, sponsorship, authority, protection, support, backing, supervision, guidance, patronage, sanction, approval, control, influence: The competition is under the auspices of the astronomical society.
AVERSION|11|n. 1 dislike, abhorrence, repugnance, antipathy, antagonism, animosity, hostility, loathing, hatred, odium, horror; disinclination, unwillingness, reluctance, dislike, distaste: Does Anne have an aversion to people who smoke? Your aversion to the theatre might be explained as agoraphobia. 2 dislike, hatred, hate, loathing: Turnips are a particular aversion of mine.
BACKBONE|10|n. 1 spine, spinal column: He's much better since the surgery on his backbone. 2 mainstay, chief or main support, buttress, pillar: Sheila has been the backbone of the society, but she has now moved away. 3 resoluteness, sturdiness, firmness, determination, strength (of character), mettle, purposefulness, resolution, courage, fortitude, resolve, will, will-power, strength, stability, stamina, staying power, grit: Has she the backbone to run the company alone?
BACKLASH|6|n. reaction, repercussion, recoil, counteraction, rebound, kickback, backfire; boomerang: There was a strong backlash in the USA against giving minorities preferred instead of equal job opportunities.
BACKWARD|12|adj. 1 bashful, shy, reticent, diffident, retiring, coy, timid, unwilling, loath, chary, reluctant, averse: She took him to be a bit backward when he didn't respond to her smile. 2 slow, dim-witted, dull, stupid, slow-witted, dumb, feeble-minded, Colloq Brit gormless, dim: Some of the more backward students will need extra help. 3 slow, late, behindhand, retarded: Millie seemed a bit backward in learning to walk. 4 rearward; to the rear, behind; to the past: She gave him a backward glance. He went on through life with never a backward look. 5 retrograde, retrogressive, reverse, regressive: The ancients were unable to account for the apparently backward motion of the planets. --adv. 6 backwards: Walk backward to the door with your hands up.
BEARABLE|7|adj. tolerable, supportable, endurable, acceptable, manageable: The heat last summer was made bearable only by frequent dips in the swimming-pool.
BEAUTIFY|16|v. adorn, embellish, decorate, ornament, titivate, elaborate, garnish, deck (out), bedeck: The old faúade was removed and the building beautified by refacing it with white marble.
BECOMING|11|adj. enhancing, beautifying, seemly; attractive, comely, fetching, chic, stylish, fashionable, tasteful; appropriate, fitting, fit, meet, befitting, proper, suitable: Your new hairdo is most becoming, Frances.
BEGRUDGE|13|v. 1 resent, envy, grudge: She doesn't begrudge him his success. 2 give (be)grudgingly or unwillingly or reluctantly, deny, refuse: He begrudges her the slightest consideration.
BEHOLDEN|14|adj. obliged, obligated, indebted, grateful, in debt, under (an) obligation: She said that she was beholden to him for everything he had done.
BELABOUR|12|v. thrash, beat, pummel or pommel, buffet, pelt, lambaste: We tried to stop the drover from belabouring the poor horse with a whip.
BELITTLE|8|v. diminish, minimize, disparage, slight, decry, detract from, depreciate, trivialize, deprecate, degrade, denigrate, downgrade, de-emphasize, discredit, criticize, derogate; reduce, mitigate, lessen, undervalue, underestimate, underrate, minimize, Colloq play down, pooh-pooh: He belittles the efforts of others but accomplishes nothing himself.
BEQUEATH|6|v. leave, make over, will, pass on, hand down or on, transmit, Law devise: Aunt Margaret has bequeathed her collection of music boxes to the museum.
BETRAYAL|13|n. 1 treachery, treason, disloyalty, perfidy, traitorousness, faithlessness, bad faith, breach of faith: His delivery of the country into the hands of an invader was an outright act of betrayal. 2 revelation, divulging, disclosure, divulgence: People should not be led into betrayals of their secret opinions.
BEWILDER|14|v. confuse, confound, perplex, puzzle, mystify, befuddle, baffle, bemuse: I was bewildered by differential calculus.
BISEXUAL|17|adj. 1 hermaphrodite or hermaphroditic(al), androgynous: Many of these microscopic animals are bisexual and self-fertilizing. 2 Colloq AC/DC, swinging both ways, Facetious ambisextrous: He was known to have had bisexual relationships. --n. 3 androgyne, hermaphrodite: Statistics showed that more women than previously believed were bisexual.
BLACKLEG|9|n. scab, strikebreaker: Despite the strike, the plant is being operated by blackleg labour.
BLESSING|0|n. 1 benediction, prayer, consecration: Each spring the vicar officiated at the blessing of the fleet. 2 boon, favour, advantage, good fortune, godsend, luck, profit, gain, help, asset, gift, bounty: Hot, sunny days are a blessing for wine growers.
BOASTFUL|13|adj. ostentatious, show-off, bragging, vainglorious, egotistical, vain, conceited: She's boastful about her wealth, but it was all left to her by her mother.
BOHEMIAN|15|adj. nonconformist, unconforming, unconventional, unorthodox, casual, free and easy: In the '60s she became a flower person and adopted a Bohemian way of life.
BONAFIDE|14|adj. genuine, authentic, attested, real, veritable, legitimate, true, valid; in good faith, sincere, honest: The jeweller affirmed that it was a bona fide ruby. I don't believe her reasons are bona fide.
BOOKWORM|17|n. bibliophile, book-lover, inveterate or ardent reader, Formal bibliophage: Fiona is such a bookworm, she hardly does anything but read.
BOOTLESS|6|adj. pointless, unavailing, vain, purposeless, useless, futile, worthless, unproductive, ineffective, inefficacious, fruitless, unprofitable, profitless, unremunerative, unrewarding, wasteful, time-wasting, Sisyphean: It's a bootless task trying to persuade him of the importance of a good education.
BOUNDARY|14|n. border(s), limit(s), frontier(s); bound(s), confines, perimeter: If you cross that boundary, you will be safely in Switzerland.
BRAGGART|8|n. boaster, bragger, braggadocio, windbag, peacock, show-off, Scaramouch or Scaramouche, Slang big-mouth, loud-mouth, gasbag: That braggart William Smith talks about himself incessantly.
BRANDNEW|14|adj. new, unused, fresh, firsthand, mint, virgin: We bought a brand-new car last week.
BRICBRAC|16|n. bric-a-brac, curiosities, knick-knacks, collectables or collectibles, trinkets, gewgaws, gimcracks; bibelots, curios, objets d'art, objets de vertu: On Saturday she went to an antiques fair and bought still more bric-å-brac to clutter up the house.
BROCHURE|8|n. pamphlet, booklet; catalogue; folder, leaflet; tract: The brochure advertising the company's products will be ready tomorrow.
BROWBEAT|15|v. bully, intimidate, threaten, badger, dominate, cow, frighten, discourage, tyrannize, hector, harass, keep after, nag, Colloq hassle: The foreman constantly browbeat anyone who wasn't one of his drinking cronies.
BRUSHOFF|6|n. dismissal, rebuff, rejection, snub, Colloq cold shoulder, put-down, slap in the face, the (old) heave-ho; Chiefly US and Canadian walking papers: Tanya has given Theo the brush-off - said she never wants to see him again.
BUILDING|8|n. edifice, structure, construction, erection: The building where I work is air-conditioned.
BULLETIN|8|n. message, notice, communication, announcement, communiqu÷, dispatch or despatch, report, account, flash, news item, newsflash: And now, here's a bulletin from the centre court at Wimbledon.
BUSINESS|8|n. 1 duty, function, occupation, calling, vocation, trade, profession, work, province, area, subject, topic, concern, affair, responsibility, role, charge, obligation: Her business is supplying models for fashion shows. Mind your own business and don't be such a Nosy Parker. 2 matter, job, task, subject, question, problem, issue, point, affair: Gentlemen, let us call the meeting to order and attend to the business at hand. 3 dealing, transaction; trade, commerce, traffic: We've never done any business with that company. 4 concern, establishment, organization, company, firm, house, enterprise; corporation, partnership, proprietorship: Rodney wants to sell the business and retire to Spain.
BUSYBODY|19|n. pry, snoop(er), peep(er), gossip, meddler, Paul Pry, Colloq Nosy Parker, Slang US buttinsky: If he so much as sees us talking together, that busybody will probably cook up some sex scandal.
BUTTOCKS|6|n. bottom, behind, derriëre, seat, rear, rear end, backside, posterior, hindquarters, fundament, Colloq Brit bum, arse , US hinie, can, tush or tushy or tushie, tokus or tochis or tuchis, keister or keester, butt, tail, prat, ass; Slang cheeks, duff: A person with large buttocks should not wear tight shorts.
BUTTRESS|6|v. sustain, support, strengthen, prop (up), brace, reinforce, shore up: Huge beams were needed to buttress the walls after the bombing.
CAJOLERY|20|n. wheedling, coaxing, blandishment, beguilement, jollying, persuasion, seduction, inveigling, inveiglement, Colloq soft soap, buttering-up, sweet talk: She uses cajolery rather than threats to get what she wants.
CALAMITY|15|n. 1 disaster, destruction, ruin, catastrophe, cataclysm, devastation, tragedy, misadventure, mischance, mishap: Calamity befell the town when it was engulfed in a landslide. 2 distress, affliction, trouble, hardship, misery, tragedy, misfortune, adversity, reverse, ruin, ruination, desolation, wretchedness: So full is the world of calamity that every source of pleasure is polluted.
CALENDAR|11|n. 1 appointment book, schedule, slate, Brit diary, US date-book, US law docket: I have next week's lunch date in my calendar. 2 almanac, chronology, chronicle, annal(s): The ecclesiastical calendar lists today as St David's Day.
CAMPAIGN|15|n. 1 operation(s), manoeuvre(s), crusade, action; drive, offensive, push, effort; struggle: Napoleon's Russian campaign ended in disaster. Our next sales campaign will be aimed at teenagers. 2 competition, contest, rivalry, race: Presidential campaigns last for more than a year. --v. 3 run, electioneer, compete, Brit stand; US and Canadian stump; Colloq throw or toss one's hat in the ring: Next week the Labour candidate will campaign in Yorkshire.
CANNIBAL|10|n. anthropophagite, man-eater: They were said to have been captured by cannibals living in remote regions.
CAPACITY|13|n. 1 volume, content, size, dimensions; room, space: What is the capacity of this bottle in litres? The car is of sufficient capacity to hold only four adults. 2 potential, ability, capability, competence, intelligence, wit, brain(s), talent, aptitude, acumen, understanding, sense, judgement, perspicacity, perceptiveness, perception, mother wit, intellect, genius, skill, gift, faculty, power, potential, Colloq chiefly US right stuff, the goods: They don't yet have the capacity to absorb advanced theory. 3 position, condition, character, place, post, role, job, office, duty, responsibility, province, sphere, function; Law competency, qualification: She has every right to sign cheques in her capacity as director.
CARDINAL|11|adj. important, chief, key, special, main, central, principal, prime, primary, essential, necessary, fundamental; supreme, paramount, highest, first, foremost, leading, pre-eminent: The cardinal virtues are justice, prudence, temperance, and fortitude, to which some writers add faith, hope, and charity.
CAREFREE|11|adj. nonchalant, easy, easygoing, insouciant, light-hearted, blithe, happy-go-lucky, breezy, airy; blas÷, indifferent, unconcerned, unworried, trouble-free, worry-free, contented, happy: Till he graduated from university, he had lived an entirely carefree life.
CARELESS|8|adj. 1 unconcerned, untroubled, unworried, casual, indifferent, heedless, thoughtless, inconsiderate, uncaring, devil-may-care, irresponsible, cursory, lackadaisical, perfunctory: No one could approve of the careless way he treats his family. 2 inattentive, negligent, thoughtless, absent-minded, neglectful, remiss; unobservant, unthinking, imprudent, unmindful, incautious, unwary, reckless, slapdash, rash: Many of the errors come from being careless. 3 inaccurate, imprecise, inexact, incorrect, wrong, error-ridden, erroneous, Colloq sloppy: You won't get a good mark for such a careless paper. 4 unstudied, ingenuous, artless, casual, nonchalant: I dislike his careless way of dressing, but it does show some style.
CARRIAGE|9|n. 1 (railway) coach, US car: We moved our belongings into the next carriage. 2 bearing, mien, air, manner, deportment, conduct, demeanour, attitude, posture, stance, presence, behaviour, comportment: His upright carriage immediately identified him as a military man. 3 freight, freightage, transportation, cartage, shipping; postage: Carriage is free within mainland Britain.
CASTAWAY|16|n. reject, cast-off, outcast, pariah, exile: She always looked after the moral well-being of the castaways of society.
CASUALTY|13|n. 1 disaster, catastrophe, calamity, accident, mischance, misadventure, mishap: The company insures against casualties at sea. 2 a victim, fatality, Colloq statistic: I'm afraid that Jeff was a casualty of last year's cut in personnel. She was only one of thousands of casualties of the earthquake. b Usually, casualties. Chiefly military wounded, injured, missing, missing in action, dead, fatalities, US MIA(s), body count: The casualties were mounting.
CATCHING|5|adj. 1 contagious, infectious, transmissible, transmittable, communicable: The doctor said that what I have is not catching. 2 attractive, captivating, fascinating, enchanting, bewitching, entrancing, winning, enticing, alluring, fetching: The strange object in the shop window was most catching to the eye of a passer-by.
CATEGORY|14|n. class, classification, type, sort, kind, variety, group, grouping, listing, rank, ranking, list, grade, department, division, section, sector, area, sphere; head, heading: Into which category would you put the partially disabled?
CATHOLIC|10|adj. universal, general, inclusive, all-inclusive, broad, wide, comprehensive, widespread, all-embracing, eclectic, liberal: Her musical tastes are catholic - they range from Bach to Berry (Chuck, that is).
CAUTIOUS|7|adj. wary, heedful, careful, prudent, circumspect, watchful, vigilant, alert, circumspect, discreet, guarded: They were very cautious about letting their children go out on their own.
CELIBACY|17|n. 1 bachelorhood, spinsterhood, singleness: People who say they enjoy celibacy may simply have not met the right partner. 2 chastity, virginity, continence, (self-)restraint, abstinence, purity: They have to take a vow of celibacy before entering the priesthood.
CELIBATE|12|adj. 1 unmarried, single, unwed: Both brother and sister remained celibate all their lives. 2 abstinent, abstemious, continent, ascetic; virgin(al), pure, chaste, unsullied, undefiled, virtuous, immaculate: He led the celibate life of a monk for twenty years. --n. 3 bachelor, spinster: She belonged to an order of female celibates.
CEREMONY|15|n. 1 rite, observance, solemnity, service, ceremonial, ritual, formality, function; obsequies: I had to attend my grandmother's funeral ceremony and was absent from school. 2 motions, formalities or formality, conventions or convention, niceties, proprieties, form, protocol; lip-service, appearances, pro formas, etiquette, decorum: Going through the ceremony is all they want - they don't care what you believe. Please sign even if only for ceremony's sake.
CHAMPION|10|n. 1 victor, winner, conqueror, title-holder, prizewinner, titleist: She is the women's singles champion for the fourth year in a row. 2 defender, guardian, protector, hero, supporter, backer, protagonist, advocate: He acquired a reputation as champion of the low-paid. 3 fighter, combatant, hero, warrior, campaigner, veteran: A stouter champion never handled a sword. The boar is often regarded as the champion among beasts. --v. 4 defend, protect, guard; support, back, stand up for, fight for, maintain, sustain, uphold; espouse, forward, promote, advocate: He has always championed the cause of the underdog.
CHASTISE|6|v. punish, beat, thrash, belabour or US belabor, spank, whip, flog, scourge, birch, cane; discipline, chasten, correct, censure, berate, scold: Pupils are not being chastised as in the old days.
CHASTITY|9|n. purity, continence, virginity, maidenhood, maidenhead, virtue, celibacy, abstinence, abstention, abstemiousness, restraint, self-restraint, forbearance: She was a nun and had taken a vow of chastity.
CHEERFUL|7|adj. 1 joyous, glad, gladsome, blithesome, blithe, happy, cheery, of good cheer, joyful, jolly, exuberant, jubilant, gleeful, gay, light-hearted, merry: I am pleased to see that Agatha is so cheerful. Why do you cry at weddings, which are supposed to be such cheerful occasions? 2 cheering, gladdening, animating, bright, enlivening, cheery, gay, buoyant, invigorating: She has redecorated the bedroom in more cheerful colours.
CHILDISH|5|adj. childlike, juvenile, puerile, infantile, babyish; immature, inexperienced, naìve, undeveloped, underdeveloped, retarded; silly, US sophomoric: They thought his reaction to their criticism was childish and petulant.
CHIVALRY|12|n. knight-errantry; honour, bravery, courage, courtesy, politeness, courtliness, gallantry, nobility, virtuousness, righteousness, justness, fairness, impartiality, equitableness: All the noble sentiments blended together constitute chivalry.
CIRCULAR|8|adj. 1 round, disc-shaped or chiefly US disk-shaped, disc-like or chiefly US disk-like, discoid; ring-shaped, ring-like, annular: Notice the circular pattern of growth of this ivy. 2 roundabout, indirect, circuitous, tortuous, twisting, twisted, anfractuous; periphrastic, circumlocutory; devious: We had to take a circular route because the road was closed. Why can't she say what she means instead of being so circular? 3 illogical, inconsistent, redundant, fallacious, irrational, Formal sophistic or sophistical: To say that you exist because you think and that you think because you exist is an example of circular reasoning.
CIVILITY|12|n. courtesy, politeness, respect, comity, urbanity, amiability, consideration, courteousness, cordiality, propriety, tact, diplomacy, politesse, protocol: Despite his rude behaviour at her dinner-party, she treats him with great civility.
CIVILIZE|18|v. 1 enlighten, refine, polish, edify, educate, acculturate: Civilized people do not behave in such a boorish way. 2 tame, domesticate; broaden, elevate, acculturate: The claim that they civilized the Aborigines means only that they forced them to conform to the White man's notion of civilization.
CLERICAL|12|adj. 1 ecclesiastical, churchly, pastoral, sacerdotal, priestly, hieratic, rabbinical, ministerial, monastic, apostolic, prelatic, papal, pontifical, episcopal, canonical: He was wearing his clerical vestments. 2 white-collar, office, professional, secretarial, stenographic, accounting, bookkeeping: He runs the shop and his wife has the clerical responsibilities.
CLINCHER|8|n. finishing touch, pay-off, punch-line, coup de grçce, final or crowning blow: The point about saving costs proved to be a clincher, and we were given the go-ahead.
COHERENT|13|adj. 1 consistent, orderly, organized, well-organized, logical, rational, reasonable, well-ordered: The MP set forth a coherent argument against an excise tax. 2 understandable, sensible, comprehensible, intelligible, articulate, lucid, clear: He was so frightened and hysterical that he was unable to tell a coherent story.
COINCIDE|9|v. fall or come or go together, line up, co-occur, correspond, synchronize, match, tally, agree, (be in) accord, equal, jibe: This year, Easter and Passover coincide. The southern boundary coincides with the Thames.
COLOSSAL|8|adj. 1 huge, vast, enormous, gigantic, giant, mammoth, massive, gargantuan, Cyclopean, Brobdingnagian, immense, monumental, titanic, Herculean, elephantine, jumbo: Mystery surrounds the exact methods used in moving the colossal stones used in the pyramids. 2 spectacular, stupendous, wonderful, awe-inspiring, staggering, extraordinary, incredible, overwhelming, unbelievable: The old Hollywood extravaganzas were described by press agents as 'colossal'. I think you have made a colossal mistake in failing to hire Cynthia.
COMEDIAN|13|n. humorist, comic, wit, wag, jokesmith; clown, buffoon, funny man, funster, jester, fool, zany, merry andrew: The new comedian at the variety show is very funny.
COMMENCE|10|v. 1 begin, enter upon, start, initiate, launch, embark on or upon: Tomorrow morning, we commence the ascent of Mont Blanc. 2 begin, start, open: The ceremonies are about to commence. 3 begin, start, initiate, launch, inaugurate, establish: We commenced operations at this plant last year.
COMMERCE|10|n. trade, business, mercantilism, marketing, merchandising, traffic, trafficking: All commerce consists in the exchange of commodities of equal value. My husband is in commerce.
COMPLAIN|14|v. grumble, moan, groan, wail, grouse, carp (at), whimper, cry, lament, bemoan, Colloq gripe, squawk, grouch, Brit whinge, Slang bitch, beef, US kick: What are you complaining about now?
COMPLETE|14|adj. 1 entire, whole, intact, uncut, unbroken, undivided, unabridged, full, undiminished, unabated, unreduced: The complete works of Dickens are available in paperback. They performed the complete opera, a six-hour marathon. 2 finished, ended, concluded, over, done, accomplished, terminated; settled, executed, performed: The company's figures are not yet complete. When will your building plan be complete? 3 entire, total, thorough, absolute, utter, unqualified, unmixed, unalloyed, pure, unmitigated, rank: I attribute the disaster to a complete breakdown of communication, together with the complete incompetence of the site manager. 4 perfect, consummate, exemplary, ideal, model, superior, superlative, superb, faultless, flawless: Her dissertation is a work of complete scholarship. --v. 5 conclude, finish, end, bring to an end, accomplish, achieve, do, Colloq wrap up; finalize: He stopped after completing ten ciruits of the track. Have you completed the prospectus? 6 round out, round off, perfect; crown, culminate: The unit was completed by the addition of five platoons. A golden cupola completed the top of the dome.
COMPOUND|15|v. 1 put together, combine, mix, concoct, compose, make (up), formulate, blend: They compound curry powder from different spices. 2 blend, merge, coalesce, combine, unite, fuse or US also fuze, come or go together: Sometimes two words compound to form one, as in 'ingrown', 'outgrow', and 'uptake'. 3 aggravate, intensify, exacerbate, heighten, augment, add to, worsen, increase; enhance, multiply: Demanding your money back now will only compound the problem. --adj. 4 intricate, complex, involved, complicated; composite, multiple, multiform, multifaceted, Technical parasynthetic, parathetic: The compound eye of the fly / Lets it see far better than I. A compound sentence is composed of two or more clauses joined by one or more coordinating conjunctions, express or understood. --n. 5 composite, blend, synthesis, combination, consolidation, Technical parasynthesis, parathesis; mixture, amalgam, alloy, merging, merger, mix: Table salt is a compound of the metallic element sodium and the gaseous element chlorine. 'Slithy' is a compound of 'slimy' and 'writhe'.
CONCEIVE|15|v. 1 have, bear, beget, sire, father, give birth to; become pregnant (with): After the twins, they conceived three boys. 2 formulate, devise, plan, contrive, create, plot, hatch, develop, evolve, fabricate, think or make up, form, frame, design: He conceived a scheme for swindling that poor woman out of her life savings. 3 think (up), imagine, speculate (on), perceive, see, understand, realize, comprehend, envision, envisage, conjure up, dream up, hypothesize, postulate, posit, suggest, suppose: I cannot conceive of any reason why she shouldn't be allowed to take part.
CONCRETE|12|adj. real, actual, literal, realistic, authentic, valid, genuine, bona fide, reliable; specific, particular, definite, definitive, clear-cut, material, physical, tangible, substantial: Have you any concrete evidence for the existence of UFOs?
CONFLICT|15|n. 1 fight, battle, combat, engagement, struggle, war, fray, fracas, affray, brawl, Donnybrook: Gurkha troops entered the conflict. 2 dispute, argument, controversy, wrangle, contention, disagreement, altercation, feud, quarrel, row; squabble, tiff, Colloq spat: The counsellor was unable to resolve the conflict between the sisters regarding the will. 3 clash, antagonism, difference, opposition, disagreement, variance, discord: There is a basic conflict between the interests of labour and of management. --v. 4 clash, disagree, differ, be incompatible or at odds or at variance, be in opposition (to): The plans conflict on only one point.
CONFUSED|14|adj. 1 mixed up, jumbled, disordered, disorganized, disorderly, muddled, muddle-headed, snarled (up), messy, baffling, confusing, mystifying, puzzling, perplexing; contradictory, ambiguous, misleading, inconsistent, mixed up, botched (up) , Colloq higgledy-piggledy: The accountants have provided a confused set of figures. 2 bewildered, perplexed, puzzled, baffled, (be)fuddled, mystified, disoriented, discomposed, at sea, flummoxed, dazed, muddled, bemused, mixed up, nonplussed, disconcerted, abashed, put off, put out, disturbed, flustered, ill at ease, upset, at sixes and sevens, at a loss, Rare metagrobolized, Colloq screwed-up, muzzy, out of it, not with it, Chiefly US discombobulated, fouled up; Slang (all) balled up, Brit (all) bollocksed or ballocksed (up), US (all) bollixed (up), US and Canadian snafu: I have never seen anyone so confused about a simple question of astrophysics. 3 jumbled, mixed up, muddled, disorderly, confusing, messy, disorganized, topsy-turvy; miscellaneous, motley, Brit shambolic: The books lay in a confused heap on the floor.
CONQUEST|8|n. 1 vanquishment, subjugation, defeat, domination, subjection: Hernando Cort÷s is famous for his conquest of Mexico. 2 victory, triumph, mastery, win: He is credited with the conquest of a number of diseases by means of this drug.
CONSIDER|11|v. 1 think about or over, take into or under consideration, deliberate (over or about), contemplate (on or over), weigh, ponder, mull over, cogitate on, meditate (on or upon or over), reflect (on or upon), ruminate (on or over), chew over, study, examine: The council will consider your proposal. 2 heed, mark, take into account or consideration, reckon with, bear in mind, note, observe, make allowance for; esteem, respect, have regard for: Consider your mother's feelings in the matter. 3 regard, look upon; judge, deem, take to be, think, believe, gauge, rate, estimate, reckon: Consider yourself under arrest. I don't consider Simon the best person for the job.
CONSTANT|10|adj. 1 resolute, immovable, steadfast, firm, dependable, unshakeable or unshakable, determined, unswerving, undeviating, persevering, unwearying, unwearied, untiring, indefatigable, tireless, unflagging, unwavering, unfailing, unfaltering, persistent; loyal, true, tried and true, devoted, staunch, trusty, faithful: He was her constant companion during her troubles. 2 incessant, unceasing, ceaseless, perpetual, persistent, uninterrupted, steady, regular, invariable, unremitting, unvarying, relentless, unrelenting, continuous, continual; unending, endless, never-ending, non-stop, perennial, eternal, everlasting, Literary sempiternal: The constant pain almost made me cry out. Their constant bickering is getting on my nerves. 3 unchanging, unchanged, invariable, unvarying, fixed, uniform, unalterable, immutable, changeless, persistent: The numbers might change, but the ratio is constant.
CONTEMPT|14|n. loathing, abhorrence, hatred, odium, hate; scorn, disdain, contumely, disgust: She has nothing but contempt for cowards.
CONTINUE|10|v. 1 carry on, proceed (with), keep up or on or at, go on (with), pursue, persist (in), persevere (in): Please continue whatever it was you were doing. 2 endure, last, go on, persist, be prolonged, remain: How long will the curfew continue? 3 maintain, keep (on), prolong, perpetuate, carry on (with), persist in or with, sustain, extend: My mother continued her career throughout my childhood. 4 resume, pick up, take up, carry on (with): Allow me to continue my story and don't interrupt again. 5 proceed, go (on), extend: The road continues for about a mile, ending at the sea.
CONTRACT|12|n. 1 agreement, understanding, deal, bargain, arrangement, pact, commitment, obligation, compact: We have just signed a contract to supply office equipment to a new electronics company. --v. 2 engage, agree, promise, covenant, undertake: Our company contracted to maintain the roads in this area. 3 catch, acquire, get, come down with, develop, become infected with, Brit go down with: Eunice contracted diphtheria. 4 diminish, shrink, draw together, roll (oneself), narrow, squeeze, constrict, compress, condense, decrease, reduce: When disturbed, the animal contracts itself into a ball. 5 wrinkle, knit, crease, corrugate, pucker: His brow contracted into a frown.
CONTRARY|13|adj. 1 opposite, opposing, opposed, different, contradictory, conflicting, antagonistic: Set aside enough time to hear the contrary side of the argument. 2 antagonistic, perverse, contrarious, hostile, unfriendly, inimical, cross-grained, refractory, contumacious, self-willed, argumentative, unaccommodating, antipathetic, Literary froward: He can disagree, but why must he be so contrary? 3 adverse, unfavourable, inauspicious, unlucky, unfortunate, unpropitious, untoward, inopportune, bad, foul: We ran into contrary winds and were delayed. --n. 4 opposite, reverse: Her present position is the direct contrary of the one she took yesterday. --adv. 5 perversely, oppositely, contrariwise, contrarily, in opposition to: The rat in the maze acted contrary to the expected pattern.
CONTRAST|10|v. 1 juxtapose, oppose, compare, distinguish, differentiate, discriminate, set or place against; set off: Contrast life in the 18th century with life today. 2 conflict, differ or diverge or deviate (from): The two styles contrast sharply. Australian speech contrasts with that of Canada in many respects. --n. 3 comparison; difference, distinction, disparity, dissimilarity: The author emphasizes the contrasts between the two economic policies.
CONVERGE|14|v. come or go together, meet, join, unite, merge, coincide; blend: The roads converge in the valley.
CONVINCE|15|v. win over, talk into, persuade, bring (a)round, sway: I have at last convinced them of the need for more resources.
CORRIDOR|9|n. hall, hallway, passage, passageway: We met in the corridor outside my room.
COWARDLY|17|adj. timid, fearful, frightened, afraid, scared, faint-hearted, timorous, chicken-hearted, chicken-livered, lily-livered, white-livered, craven, namby-pamby, dastardly, pusillanimous, vitelline, Slang yellow, yellow-bellied: The cowardly rascals ran from the battle.
CREATIVE|13|adj. imaginative, inventive, originative, artistic, original, ingenious, resourceful: A truly creative artist seldom lacks for inspiration.
CREATURE|10|n. 1 being, organism, entity, living thing: The hound had the saddest face I have ever seen on any creature. 2 creature comforts. (physical or bodily or material or mundane or superficial or non-spiritual) luxuries: He has the money to enjoy all the creature comforts.
CREVASSE|11|n. gorge, chasm, abyss, ravine, fissure, crack, furrow: One of the climbers fell into a crevasse in the glacier.
CRIMINAL|12|adj. 1 illegal, unlawful, illicit, lawless, dishonest, Colloq crooked: Arson is a criminal act. We have to weed out the criminal element. 2 wicked, evil, bad, wrong, corrupt, vile, black, immoral, amoral, sinful, villainous, iniquitous, flagitious, depraved; disgraceful, reprehensible: The way they treat their children is absolutely criminal. --n. 3 felon, convict, lawbreaker, outlaw, culprit, offender, miscreant, malefactor, wrongdoer, villain, scoundrel, knave, blackguard; gangster, Mafioso, desperado, racketeer; hoodlum, thug, hooligan, tough, ruffian, terrorist, Colloq roughneck, bad guy, black hat, bad hat, baddie or baddy, crook; Slang hood, US mobster: He was arrested for consorting with known criminals.
CRIPPLED|9|adj. 1 disabled, lame, handicapped, incapacitated; weakened, weak, debilitated: He takes care of his crippled mother. The crippled party platform succumbed to attack from the far left. 2 damaged, immobilized, inoperative: The crew stayed with the crippled vessel.
CRITICAL|12|adj. 1 carping, fault-finding, censorious, disparaging, depreciatory or depreciative, depreciating, deprecatory or deprecative, deprecating, judgemental: The article was highly critical of the council. 2 crucial, important, essential, basic, key, decisive, pivotal, vital, momentous: The meeting at the bank will be critical for us. 3 grave, serious, dangerous, uncertain, perilous, severe, touch-and-go, ticklish, sensitive, touchy, Colloq parlous: His illness has reached the critical stage.
DAMNABLE|8|adj. awful, terrible, horrible, horrid, atrocious, abominable, dreadful, hideous, execrable, accursed, cursed, detestable, hateful, abhorrent, despicable, loathsome, wicked, sinful, offensive, heinous, pernicious, infernal, malicious, malevolent, outrageous, foul, rotten, base, vile, odious: He has been telling the most damnable lies about her since they broke up.
DAYDREAM|15|n. 1 reverie, wool-gathering, fantasy, fancy, dream, musing, castle in the air or in Spain, pipedream: The realities of life have cured me of many day-dreams. --v. 2 fantasize, imagine, fancy, envision, dream: She still day-dreams that a knight in shining armour will come and carry her away.
DAYLIGHT|9|n. 1 sunlight, sun, sunshine, light: Coming from the cave, we were blinded by the daylight. 2 open, broad daylight, light of day, full view, full knowledge, clarity: We must bring his treachery out into the daylight.
DAZZLING|4|adj. bright, brilliant, resplendent, blinding, bedazzling, radiant, splendid, magnificent, glorious, sparkling, scintillating; stunning, overwhelming, overpowering, stupefying, dizzying; gorgeous; Colloq splendiferous, mind-boggling: In the chest was a dazzling collection of the finest jewels.
DEADLOCK|8|n. 1 standstill, impasse, stalemate, stand-off, draw, stoppage, Colloq US Mexican stand-off: Union and management negotiators have reached a deadlock on the pension issue. --v. 2 bring or come to a standstill or impasse, stall, stop, halt: The Congress is likely to deadlock on the question of expanding national health benefits.
DECADENT|12|adj. 1 declining, decaying, deteriorating, debased, degenerating, falling off, on the wane, withering, degenerative: The decadent literature of the period was a reflection of the decline in moral standards. 2 corrupt, dissolute, immoral, debauched, dissipated, self-indulgent, degenerate: His decadent behaviour brought him to the attention of the police.
DECIPHER|12|v. 1 decode, decrypt; unravel, unscramble, disentangle, translate, work out, explain, solve, Colloq figure out: It was Champollion who deciphered the Rosetta Stone. 2 read, interpret, make out, Colloq figure out: I can't decipher Theresa's handwriting or what she's trying to say.
DECISION|7|n. 1 settlement, determination, resolution, settling, resolving, arbitration: The decision is the umpire's responsibility. 2 judgement, conclusion, resolution, verdict, sentence, ruling, finding, decree, settlement, outcome: According to the decision, the victims will receive compensatory damages. 3 determination, firmness, decidedness, resolve, decisiveness, conclusiveness, steadfastness, purpose, purposefulness: She asserted her position with decision.
DECOROUS|8|adj. becoming, dignified, decent, correct, mannerly, seemly, refined, elegant, polite, well-behaved, genteel, demure, polished, gentlemanly, ladylike, seemly: Your behaviour was less than decorous at last night's party.
DECREASE|11|v. 1 diminish, reduce, decline, lessen, lower, abate, fall off, shrink, shrivel (up), contract, dwindle, ebb, subside, wane, taper off, de-escalate, slacken, let up, ease (off or up), curtail, cut (down or back), Colloq run out of steam, US run out of gas: Demand for tickets to rock concerts has decreased over the years. The number of applicants for work is decreasing. --n. 2 diminution, reduction, decline, lessening, lowering, abatement, falling off, shrinking, shrivelling, contraction, decrement, dwindling, ebb, subsidence, tapering off, wane, de-escalation, slackening, easing (off or up), curtailment, cut, cut-back: There has been no noticeable decrease in the price of houses in the south-east. Have you noticed the decrease in arrests for dangerous driving?
DEDICATE|12|v. 1 devote, consecrate, give (up or over), yield, offer, surrender, commit, pledge, assign: She dedicated her life to helping the poor. 2 consecrate, bless, sanctify, hallow: There stands the temple dedicated to Apollo. 3 inscribe; address, assign: This book has been dedicated to you.
DEFECATE|14|v. void (excrement), move the bowels, excrete, eliminate, evacuate (the bowels), have a (bowel) movement or bm, open the bowels, relieve oneself, Babytalk do number two , Euphemistic go to the men's or ladies' (room), go to the toilet or bathroom or lavatory, excuse (oneself), wash (one's) hands, go to the bathroom, go to the powder-room; Mincing go to the little boys' or girls' room; Colloq Brit spend a penny, Colloq Brit go to the loo, pass a motion, Taboo slang (take a) crap or shit: The first symptoms of bowel disease are problems when defecating.
DEFECTOR|14|n. deserter, apostate, turncoat, traitor, renegade, Colloq rat: Some political defectors were suspected of being spies.
DEFINITE|12|adj. 1 specific, particular, exact, pronounced, explicit, express, precise: She came here with a definite purpose. 2 sure, positive, certain, assured, fixed, settled, confirmed: Then we have a definite appointment for two o'clock? 3 clear, plain, well-defined, unambiguous, unequivocal, distinct, clear-cut, obvious: The plans for revision are definite.
DEFORMED|15|adj. 1 misshapen, malformed, distorted, twisted, grotesque, gnarled, crooked, contorted, awry, warped, bent: This tree is deformed because of the constant wind. 2 disfigured, crippled, lame, misshapen; abnormal: He was born with a deformed foot. 3 distorted, warped, bent, perverted, twisted, grotesque; abnormal: The deformed personalities of his patients are the subject of my book.
DEJECTED|19|adj. downcast, downhearted, depressed, dispirited, discouraged, despondent, down, low, chap-fallen, crestfallen, melancholy, sad, unhappy, gloomy, glum, miserable, blue, low-spirited, in low spirits, forlorn, woebegone, disconsolate, sorrowful, morose, heartbroken, heavy-hearted, in the doldrums, Colloq down in the dumps, down in the mouth: She was bound to feel dejected when she couldn't find a job.
DELEGATE|10|n. 1 envoy, agent, legate, representative, ambassador, plenipotentiary, minister, emissary, commissioner, (papal) nuncio, (papal) internuncio, spokesperson, spokesman, spokeswoman, go-between: They kowtowed to the delegate from His Imperial Highness. --v. 2 depute, commission, appoint, designate, assign, name, nominate, accredit, authorize, empower, mandate: The president delegated Ambassador Foxley to represent him at the meeting. 3 assign, give, hand over or on, pass over or on, depute, transfer, entrust, relegate, Colloq pass the buck for, US buck: She has delegated the responsibility to one of the directors.
DELICACY|16|n. 1 fineness, exquisiteness, gracefulness, beauty, lightness, daintiness: Notice the delicacy of the tracery in the rose window. 2 fragility, fragileness, frailty, frailness, weakness, infirmity, feebleness, tenderness; susceptibility: Because of the delicacy of his constitution, even a cold might be fatal. 3 sensitivity, difficulty, ticklishness, finesse, nicety, sensibility: The delicacy of the situation demands the utmost diplomacy. 4 luxury, sweetmeat, dainty, titbit or US tidbit, savoury: The table was laden with delicacies from all over the world.
DELICATE|11|adj. 1 fragile, breakable, frail, tender, frangible, dainty; perishable, flimsy: This filament is extremely delicate, so be careful. 2 fine, exquisite, dainty, graceful, elegant, subtle: A delicate border of lace sets off the collar. 3 feeble, weak, sickly, frail, debilitated, weakened, enfeebled, unhealthy: Her condition is too delicate for her to be moved. 4 critical, ticklish, sensitive, dangerous, tricky, precarious, touchy, Slang hairy; Colloq sticky: Rescuing the survivors of the avalanche was a delicate operation. 5 dainty, squeamish, queasy, fastidious, prudish, Victorian, finicky, finical, refined, discriminating, discerning, sensitive, puristic, proper, coy, modest, demure: In those days ladies were thought to be too delicate to mention such matters. 6 gradual, subtle, nice, precise, muted, soft, faint, subdued: The delicate shading at the horizon is characteristic of this artist.
DELIVERY|15|n. 1 distribution, delivering, deliverance, conveyance, transportation, transport: The strikers have caused delivery of newspapers to stop. 2 liberation, release, deliverance, emancipation: His delivery from poverty was still a few years away. 3 childbirth, parturition; confinement: Many women find that their second child is an easier delivery. 4 presentation, performance; utterance, enunciation, articulation, pronunciation, expression, execution: He is an accomplished orator, with a spellbinding delivery.
DELUSION|9|n. 1 deception, trick, stratagem, artifice, ruse, pretence: It was a snare and a delusion to represent the painting as genuine. 2 false or mistaken impression, fallacy, illusion, mistake, error, misconception, misbelief, hallucination: He suffers under the delusion that he is a great pianist.
DEMOLISH|9|v. 1 tear or pull down, dismantle, reduce to ruin(s), smash, pull to pieces, knock down, raze, topple, destroy, level: This building will have to be demolished to make room for the new shopping mall. 2 destroy, end, bring to an end, make an end of, put an end to, devastate, terminate, annihilate, overturn, overthrow, crush, defeat, refute, disprove, dispose of, suppress, squelch, quash: With just one phrase he demolished their entire argument.
DENOUNCE|11|v. 1 accuse, brand, stigmatize, charge, blame, incriminate, implicate, complain about: He has been denounced for the blackguard he is. 2 betray, inform against, report, reveal: He denounced his own son to the authorities. 3 criticize, condemn, decry, denunciate, attack, assail, censure, impugn, declaim or rail (against), vituperate, revile, vilify, inveigh against; ridicule, (hold up to) shame, pillory, (heap) scorn (upon), cast a slur on: The playwright was denounced as a neo-Nazi.
DEPRIVED|15|adj. needy, in want, in need, impoverished, badly off, destitute, poor, poverty-stricken, Euphemistic underprivileged, disadvantaged: As a deprived family, they are entitled to a number of benefits.
DERELICT|11|adj. 1 deserted, abandoned, forsaken, neglected; ruined, dilapidated, run-down, tumbledown: The council has a scheme for the renovation of derelict buildings in the inner city. 2 negligent, remiss, neglectful, delinquent, dilatory, careless, heedless, lax, slack, irresponsible, slipshod, slovenly, Colloq sloppy: He was accused of having been derelict in his duty. --n. 3 vagrant, tramp, outcast, pariah, loafer, wastrel, good-for-nothing, ne'er-do-well, malingerer, vagabond, slacker, down-and-out, US and Canadian hobo, Colloq US bum: Because of alcohol, he ended up as a derelict.
DERISION|9|n. ridicule, mockery, raillery, laughter, sarcasm, scoffing, contempt, scorn, contumely, disrespect; satire, lampoon, pasquinade, burlesque, caricature, travesty: Her suggestion was greeted with derision.
DERISORY|12|adj. mocking, ridiculing, scornful, derisive, disdainful, contemptuous, taunting, insulting, contumelious, jeering; sardonic, sarcastic, ironic(al), satirical: He felt crushed by their derisory laughter.
DESCRIBE|9|v. 1 tell (of), recount, relate, give an account (of), narrate, recite, report, chronicle; retail: He described his adventures in Rio. 2 detail, define, explain, specify, delineate: Please describe exactly where you found the body. 3 characterize, portray, paint, depict, identify, label, style; represent: I would describe her as careless rather than uncaring. 4 trace, mark out, outline, traverse, draw: The trail of the comet described a perfect arc in the black sky.
DESERTED|10|adj. abandoned, desolate, forsaken, neglected, uninhabited, unpeopled, vacant, vacated, unfrequented, unvisited, unoccupied, empty; stranded, rejected, God-forsaken, isolated, solitary, lonely, friendless: At that hour the streets are completely deserted.
DESERTER|9|n. runaway, fugitive, escapee, absconder, defector, renegade, outlaw; traitor, turncoat, Colloq rat: Deserters are shot when caught.
DESERVED|13|adj. merited, earned, just, rightful, suitable, fitting, fit, appropriate, proper, right, fair, equitable, meet, warranted, condign: Carla was never given her deserved credit for catching the thief.
DESIROUS|6|adj. wishful, desiring, longing, yearning, hopeful, hoping: I was desirous to learn more about his whereabouts.
DESOLATE|9|adj. 1 solitary, lonely, isolated, deserted, forlorn, forsaken, friendless, alone, abandoned, neglected; desert, uninhabited, empty, unfrequented, bare, barren, bleak, remote: He felt desolate after his wife's death. Tristan da Cunha is a group of four desolate islands in the Atlantic. 2 laid waste, ruined, devastated, ravaged, destroyed: The explosion left the surrounding countryside desolate. 3 dreary, dismal, wretched, joyless, cheerless, comfortless, miserable, unhappy, down, disconsolate, sad, melancholy, sorrowful, forlorn, mournful, woebegone, gloomy, broken-hearted, heavy-hearted, inconsolable, dejected, downcast, downhearted, dispirited, low-spirited, depressed, melancholy, spiritless, despondent, dismal, distressed, discouraged, hopeless: He has brought some happiness into her desolate existence. --v. 4 depopulate: The country was desolated by famine. 5 destroy, devastate, ruin, lay waste, despoil, ravage, demolish, obliterate, annihilate, raze, gut: Invaders desolated the countryside. 6 dismay, dishearten, depress, daunt, dispirit, sadden, deject, dispirit, discourage: He was either buoyed up by renewed hope or desolated by despair.
DESPOTIC|13|adj. dictatorial, tyrannical, oppressive, authoritarian, imperious, domineering, totalitarian, absolute, autocratic, arbitrary: The country was under the despotic rule of a callous tyrant.
DESTINED|10|adj. 1 meant, intended, designed, predetermined, foreordained, predestined, fated; doomed, written; US in the cards: His destined end was to be shot while escaping. Oliver was destined to fail at everything he tried. It was destined that the boy would become king. 2 certain, sure, bound, ineluctable, unavoidable, inevitable, inescapable: Being devoured by monsters is the destined demise of all who dare to enter there.
DETACHED|8|adj. 1 disconnected, unattached, separate(d), free, isolated, disentangled, unfastened, removed, cut off, divided, disjoined: He suffered from a detached retina. Their new house is detached. 2 disinterested, aloof, uninvolved, unemotional, dispassionate, d÷gag÷(e), reserved, impersonal, impartial, neutral, objective, unbiased, unprejudiced: She seemed rather detached and did not get involved in the discussion.
DETAILED|10|adj. 1 itemized, exhaustive, comprehensive, thorough, full, complete, inclusive, particularized, precise, exact, minute, blow-by-blow, circumstantial: He kept a detailed report of everything that happened on D-Day. 2 intricate, complex, complicated, elaborate, ornate: Note the detailed scrollwork on this screen.
DEVILISH|10|adj. diabolic(al), satanic, Mephistophelian, fiendish, demonic, cacodemonic, demoniac(al), infernal, hellish, villainous, sinister, wicked, evil, iniquitous, sinful, flagitious, heinous, malign, malevolent, malignant, cruel, maleficent; impish, mischievous, prankish, naughty, crazy, madcap: He has come up with a devilish plan for stealing the secret formula.
DEVOTION|12|n. 1 devotedness, devoutness, reverence; earnestness, religiousness, piety, religiosity, pietism, godliness, holiness, spirituality, sanctity; worship, prayer, observance, ritual: The sect was noted for its devotion to martyrs and their relics. It is gratifying to see such devotion amongst the younger members of the congregation. They interrupted the holy man at his devotions. 2 dedication, consecration, attachment, loyalty, devotedness: His devotion to duty will be remembered by his fellow soldiers. 3 zeal, ardour, fervour, ardency, intensity, fanaticism, eagerness, enthusiasm, earnestness, readiness, willingness; love, passion, infatuation, fondness, affection, attachment, adherence, loyalty, allegiance: They would dedicate themselves with slavish devotion to some brutal master.
DIABOLIC|13|adj. 1 diabolical, devilish, satanic, Mephistophelian, demonic, demoniac(al), fiendish, hellish, infernal: His interest in the supernatural included participation in diabolic rituals of the most repulsive kind. 2 diabolical, cruel, wicked, iniquitous, evil, fiendish, appalling, dreadful, inhuman, atrocious, execrable, abominable, awful, terrible, damnable, accursed, horrid, horrible, hideous, monstrous, odious, vile, base, corrupt, foul, depraved, flagitious, heinous, malicious, malevolent, malign, maleficent, sinister, sinful, impious, bad: The prisoners suffered the most diabolic treatment.
DIAGNOSE|10|v. identify, name, determine, recognize, distinguish, pinpoint, interpret; analyse: The doctor diagnosed the symptoms as those of rheumatoid arthritis.
DIALOGUE|10|n. 1 duologue, conversation, discussion, conference, talk, chat, colloquy, communication: I wrote down that dialogue - it was hilarious! 2 parley, conference, meeting, huddle, téte-å-téte, colloquy, Colloq US and Canadian rap session: A meaningful dialogue between labour and management could easily settle the question.
DICTATOR|11|n. autocrat, absolute ruler or monarch, despot, overlord, oppressor, tsar or czar, tyrant, Fuehrer or Fâhrer: Among monarchs, Henry VIII certainly could have been characterized as a dictator.
DILIGENT|10|adj. persevering, persistent, industrious, assiduous, sedulous, intent, steady, steadfast, focused, concentrated, earnest, attentive, conscientious, hard-working, indefatigable, tireless, constant, painstaking, careful, thorough, scrupulous, meticulous, punctilious: Only through diligent application was she able to get through law school.
DIMINISH|9|v. 1 decrease, decline, abate, lessen, reduce, lower, shrink, curtail, contract, lop, crop, dock, clip, prune, cut, truncate, cut down, abbreviate, shorten, abridge, compress, condense, pare (down), scale down, boil down: As the height increases, the pressure diminishes. The need for police patrols was diminished when we hired security guards. 2 belittle, disparage, degrade, downgrade, discredit, detract (from), vitiate, debase, deprecate, demean, derogate, depreciate, vilipend, devalue, cheapen, put down, dismiss, humiliate, demean, reject: His abuse by the authorities did not diminish him in her eyes. 3 wane, fade, dwindle, ebb, die out or away, peter out, recede, subside; slacken, let up, wind down, slow (down), ease (off), Colloq run out of steam: Soaking in the hot water, I felt the tensions of mind and body gradually diminishing. The campaign finally diminished to a negligible effort.
DIRECTLY|14|adv. 1 straight, in a beeline, unswervingly, undeviatingly, as the crow flies: This road should take me directly to the beach. 2 immediately, at once, straight away, right away, quickly, promptly, without delay, speedily, instantly, Colloq US and Canadian momentarily: She called and I went directly. 3 soon, later (on), anon, presently, in a (little) while, shortly: The doctor will be here directly. 4 exactly, precisely, just; completely, entirely: My garage is directly opposite. The cricket pitch is directly at the centre of the park. --conj. 5 as soon as, when: The police arrested him directly he entered the building.
DIRECTOR|11|n. 1 executive, administrator, official, principal; chairman, president, vice-president; governor; head, chief, boss, manager, superintendent, supervisor, overseer, foreman, headman, Colloq kingpin, number one, numero uno, Mr Big, the man; Slang top dog, top banana, Brit gaffer, US big cheese, head or chief honcho: The sale of the company was announced at the meeting of the board of directors. 2 guide, leader; steersman, helmsman, pilot, skipper, commander, commandant, captain; cicerone; maestro, concert-master, conductor; impresario: We were lucky to have a director who really knew what he was doing.
DISABLED|7|adj. incapacitated, crippled, lame; damaged, ruined, impaired, harmed, non-functioning, inoperative, Slang Brit scuppered: Disabled ex-servicemen ought to receive compensation. No parts could be found for the disabled machines.
DISASTER|9|n. catastrophe, calamity, cataclysm, tragedy, misfortune, d÷bçcle, accident, mishap, blow, act of God, adversity, trouble, reverse: The flooding of the river was as much of a disaster as the earlier drought.
DISCIPLE|9|n. 1 apprentice, pupil, student, proselyte, learner, scholar: Pietro Zampollini was a disciple of the great artist Ravelli. 2 follower, adherent, devotee, admirer, votary; partisan, fan, aficionado: She is a disciple of Louis Armstrong's.
DISCLOSE|7|v. 1 reveal, impart, divulge, betray, release, tell, blurt out, blab, leak, let slip, report, inform, Colloq spill the beans, blow the gaff, Slang squeal, snitch, squeak, rat, peach, US fink: To get a shorter sentence, he disclosed all to the police. 2 bare, reveal, expose, uncover, show, unveil: When the pie was opened, twenty-four blackbirds were disclosed.
DISCOUNT|7|v. 1 reduce, mark down, deduct, lower, take or knock off: As I was buying a dozen, he discounted the price by ten per cent. 2 diminish, lessen, minimize, detract from: One must discount what she says when she's angry. 3 disregard, omit, ignore, pass or gloss over, overlook, brush off, dismiss: Those statistics are old and can be discounted. --n. 4 reduction, mark-down, deduction, rebate, allowance: The shop overstocked the item and is offering it at a big discount.
DISCOVER|10|v. 1 find (out), learn, perceive, unearth, uncover, bring to light, turn or dig up, smoke or search out, root or ferret out; determine, ascertain, track down, identify; locate: He discovered the ninth moon of Saturn. We discovered why the tyre had gone flat. 2 see, spot, catch sight or a glimpse of, lay eyes on, behold, view, encounter, meet (with); notice, espy, descry, detect, discern: He discovered Madagascar lying right on their course. 3 originate, conceive (of), devise, contrive, invent, make up, design, pioneer; come or chance or stumble upon: She discovered a method for tin-plating gold.
DISCREET|5|adj. careful, cautious, prudent, judicious, considerate, guarded, tactful, diplomatic, circumspect, wary, chary, heedful, watchful, circumspect: She has always been very discreet in her business dealings with me.
DISCRETE|7|adj. separate, distinct, individual, disconnected, unattached, discontinuous: These items must be treated as discrete entities and not taken together.
DISEASED|10|adj. unhealthy, unwell, ill, sick, ailing, unsound, infirm, out of sorts, abed, infected, contaminated; afflicted, abnormal: We must care for the diseased patients before those with broken bones.
DISGRACE|12|n. 1 ignominy, shame, humiliation, embarrassment, degradation, debasement, dishonour, discredit, disfavour, disrepute, vitiation, infamy; disesteem, contempt, odium, obloquy, opprobrium: His conduct has brought disgrace on his family. 2 blemish, harm, aspersion, blot, scandal, slur, stigma, vilification, smirch, smear, stain, taint, black mark: The way she has been treated by the company is a disgrace. --v. 3 shame, humiliate, embarrass, mortify: He has been disgraced by his son's cowardice. 4 degrade, debase, dishonour, discredit, disfavour, vitiate, defame, disparage, scandalize, slur, stain, taint, stigmatize, sully, besmirch, smirch, tarnish, smear, asperse, vilify, blacken, drag through the mud, reflect (adversely) on: Once again his actions have disgraced the family name.
DISGUISE|10|v. 1 camouflage, cover up, conceal, hide, mask: The van was disguised as a hay wagon. 2 misrepresent, falsify, counterfeit, fake, deceive: They have disguised the true profits to avoid paying taxes. --n. 3 guise, identity, cover-up, camouflage, appearance, semblance, form, outfit, costume: She appeared in the disguise of a policewoman. 4 pretence, deception, dissimulation, faúade, semblance, Colloq front: Disguise is seldom resorted to by spies these days.
DISLOYAL|12|adj. unfaithful, faithless, untrue, false, untrustworthy, recreant; treasonable or treasonous, treacherous, traitorous, unpatriotic, subversive, perfidious, deceitful; renegade, apostate, heretical: It would be disloyal of you not to vote along party lines.
DISORDER|10|n. 1 disarray, confusion, chaos, disorderliness, disorganization, untidiness, mess, muddle, jumble, hash, mishmash, tangle, hotchpotch or US and Canadian also hodgepodge, derangement, shambles, clutter: After the party, the place was in terrible disorder. 2 tumult, riot, disturbance, pandemonium, upheaval, ferment, fuss, unrest, uproar, hubbub, hullabaloo, commotion, clamour, turbulence, turmoil, turbulence, violence, bedlam, free-for-all, rumpus, brouhaha, fracas, affray, fray, brawl, Donnybrook, scuffle, fight, mél÷e or melee, battle royal, battle, civil disorder, breach of the peace, Colloq Brit kerfuffle or carfuffle or kurfuffle, Slang Brit bovver: The army had to be called out to quell the disorder. 3 ailment, illness, sickness, affliction, malady, affection, complaint, disease: The doctors diagnosed it as a liver disorder. --v. 4 upset, disarrange, muddle, confuse, confound, unsettle, disorganize, discompose, shake up, disturb, mix (up), befuddle, jumble, scramble, tangle, snarl: You obscure the sense when you disorder the words.
DISPATCH|9|v. 1 send off or away or out, send on one's way: We dispatched a messenger with the parcel. 2 send, mail, post, transmit, forward, ship, express, remit, convey , Chiefly US and Canadian freight: Please dispatch this letter as quickly as possible. 3 kill, murder, slay, dispose of, put to death, execute, do away with, do in, assassinate,- liquidate, finish (off), put an end to, put away (for good), Slang polish off, bump off, eliminate, gun down, silence, get, erase, rub out, knock off, bury, US ice, hit, take for a ride, waste, zap: The gang soon dispatched all their rivals. 4 hasten, hurry, speed up, accelerate, get done, accomplish, get through, conclude, finish off, complete, execute, do: The task was dispatched in just two days. --n. 5 haste, speed, promptness, quickness, expedition, expeditiousness, celerity, alacrity, swiftness, hurry, rapidity: She concluded the interview with dispatch and sent me away. 6 communiqu÷, report, bulletin, story, news (item), communication, message, piece: document, instruction, missive: Here is a dispatch from our correspondent on Pitcairn Island. 7 execution, killing, murder, disposal, assassination, dispatching, slaying: The dispatch of the consul left us without a representative.
DISPENSE|11|v. 1 distribute, give out, hand or pass out, furnish, supply, provide, give away, deal (out), dole out, parcel out, disburse, mete out, share (out), issue, apportion, allocate, allot, assign, Colloq dish out: The Red Cross dispensed medicines to the stricken villagers. 2 administer, conduct, direct, operate, superintend, supervise, carry out, execute, discharge, apply, implement, enforce: It is the governor who dispenses justice in these islands. 3 dispense with. a do without, forgo, give up, eschew, relinquish, refuse, waive, forswear, abstain (from), renounce, reject: Can we dispense with the jokes and get to work? b do away with, get rid of, eliminate, do without, dispose of, abolish, manage or do without, remove, cancel, ignore, render unnecessary or superfluous: Building on solid rock will dispense with the need for a foundation.
DISPERSE|11|v. 1 spread (out), scatter, broadcast, distribute, circulate, diffuse, disseminate: The practice is now widely dispersed throughout Asia. 2 disband, spread out, scatter, dissipate, break up; disappear, vanish; dispel, dismiss, rout, send off or away: The crowd dispersed quietly.
DISPOSED|12|adj. likely, inclined, apt, liable, given, tending or leaning towards, prone, subject, of a mind to, minded, willing, ready, predisposed: She was still awake when he got home and seemed disposed to talk.
DISPROVE|14|v. refute, confute, invalidate, contradict, negate, rebut, discredit, controvert, puncture, demolish, destroy, Colloq shoot or poke full of holes: Modern science has disproved the phlogiston theory.
DISSOLVE|10|v. 1 melt (away), liquefy, disperse, disintegrate, diffuse, decompose, thaw (out), fuse, deliquesce; sublime; vanish, disappear, fade (away), diminish, decline, peter out: Dissolve one tablet in water. The sugar dissolved in the tea. 2 collapse, break into, melt into: She dissolved into tears whenever he shouted at her. 3 break up, disperse, dismiss, terminate, finish, conclude, adjourn, recess, disband, wind up; liquidate: We took a vote and dissolved the meeting.
DISTANCE|11|n. 1 remoteness, space, gap, interval, mileage, footage, stretch: What is the distance from here to your house? 2 aloofness, detachment, reserve, coolness, haughtiness, hauteur, stiffness, rigidity: He maintains a distance between himself and the servants. --v. 3 separate, detach, dissociate, disassociate: She distanced herself from her students.
DISTASTE|9|n. 1 dislike, disfavour, antipathy, disrelish, disinclination; dissatisfaction, displeasure, discontentment: You know of my distaste for cocktail parties. 2 aversion, revulsion, disgust, nausea, abhorrence, loathing, repugnance, horror: She has a distinct distaste for avocado pears.
DISTINCT|11|adj. 1 clear, perceptible, plain, understandable, vivid, definite, well-defined, precise, exact, unmistakable or unmistakeable, noticeable, recognizable, obvious, patent, marked, manifest, evident, apparent, explicit, unambiguous, clear-cut, palpable, unequivocal, lucid, sharp, pellucid, limpid, transparent: There is a distinct outline of a figure on the Turin shroud. 2 separate, detached, discrete, different, dissimilar, distinguishable, distinguished; individual, sui generis, unique, special, singular; peculiar, unusual, uncommon, contrasting: The government of Puerto Rico is distinct from that of the US. He has been charged with three distinct offences.
DISTRACT|11|v. 1 divert, deflect, sidetrack, turn aside, draw away: Sorry, I was distracted for a moment - where were we? 2 divert, amuse, entertain, gratify, delight, occupy, interest, absorb, engross: We found the belly-dancers quite distracting. 3 bewilder, confuse, confound, perplex, puzzle, discompose, befuddle, mystify, disconcert, fluster, rattle, bemuse, daze, disturb, agitate, trouble, bother: I am distracted with doubts about whether to phone the police.
DISTRESS|7|n. 1 anguish, anxiety, affliction, angst, grief, misery, torment, ache, pain, suffering, agony, torture, woe, woefulness, wretchedness; unhappiness, sorrow, sadness, depression, heartache, desolation: It is impossible to imagine the distress of a bereaved parent. 2 calamity, trouble, adversity, catastrophe, tragedy, misfortune, difficulty, hardship, straits, trial, disaster: Has he no sympathy for the distresses that have beset his people? --v. 3 bother, disturb, perturb, upset, trouble, worry, harrow, harry, vex, harass, plague, oppress, grieve, torment, torture, afflict: The thought of Miss Camberley as a hostage distressed us all.
DISTRICT|11|n. territory, region, section, sector, division, partition, part, precinct, locality, area, locale, department, province, community, quarter, neighbourhood, ward: We need a new hospital in our district.
DISTRUST|9|v. 1 mistrust, doubt, question, be sceptical of, be circumspect or cautious about, suspect, be suspicious or wary of, discredit, disbelieve, Colloq smell a rat; Colloq be leery of: I distrusted her motives from the very beginning. --n. 2 mistrust, doubt, doubtfulness, uncertainty, misgiving(s), scepticism, suspicion, disbelief, incredulity, incredulousness, hesitation, caution, wariness, qualm, hesitancy: His claims were greeted with distrust.
DIVISION|12|n. 1 dividing, split, splitting (up), breaking up, partition, partitioning, partitionment, separation, separating, diremption, segmentation, segmenting, compartmentation, sectioning, apportioning, apportionment, allotment: In England a division between Church and State is not recognized. 2 section, compartment, segment; partition, separation: Egg crates have 144 divisions. 3 branch, department, sector, section, unit, group, arm; part, set, category, class, classification: The textile division of the company lost money last year. 4 boundary (line), border, borderline, frontier, margin, line, dividing line: Where is the division between good and evil? 5 discord, disagreement, upset, conflict, strife, disunity, disunion: The issue of equal rights has led to much division within the movement.
DOCTRINE|11|n. teaching, body of instruction, precept; principle, tenet, dogma, article of faith, canon, conviction, creed, belief, credo, opinion, idea, concept, theory, proposition, thesis, postulate: Few believe the doctrine that all men are created equal.
DOCUMENT|13|n. 1 paper, certificate, instrument, report, chronicle, record: All the legal documents are at my lawyer's office. --v. 2 record, chronicle, particularize, detail, describe; verify, validate, certify, authenticate, corroborate, substantiate: Detectives have documented every move you made since the murder.
DOGMATIC|14|adj. arbitrary, categorical, dictatorial, imperious, peremptory, overbearing, doctrinaire, authoritarian, emphatic, insistent, assertive, arrogant, domineering; obdurate, stubborn; opinionated, positive, certain, Rare thetic(al), Colloq pushy: Patrick tends to be quite dogmatic when he is sure of his ground.
DOMESTIC|13|adj. 1 home, private, family, familial; residential, household: Her domestic life is a shambles. This toaster is for domestic use. 2 tame, domesticated, house-trained, house-broken: Tenants are forbidden to keep domestic animals. 3 home, native, indigenous, internal, autochthonous: The domestic market accounts for most of the company's income. --n. 4 servant, (hired) help, housekeeper, major-domo, steward: Her domestics left and she now does the cleaning herself.
DOMICILE|9|n. 1 dwelling (place), residence, abode, home, habitation, (living) quarters, housing, accommodation(s), lodging(s), Colloq Brit digs, diggings, Slang pad: Domiciles in south-east England have increased enormously in value. --v. 2 locate, quarter, lodge, settle, establish, situate, domiciliate: She is domiciled abroad, hence pays no income tax here.
DOMINANT|11|adj. 1 commanding, authoritative, controlling, governing, ruling, leading, reigning, influential, assertive, supreme, superior, ascendant: He has taken a dominant role in promoting foreign language teaching. 2 predominant, chief, main, principal, primary, prevailing, outstanding, pre-eminent, paramount: A large nose is a dominant characteristic in their family.
DOMINATE|11|v. 1 command, control, govern, rule, direct, lead, reign (over), exercise command or authority or control or rule over, have the whip or upper hand (over), run (things), be in or have under control, rule the roost or roast, Colloq call the shots or the tune, wear the trousers or US the pants, be in the driver's seat, rule with an iron hand, have under one's thumb: She clearly dominates the board of directors. 2 overlook, look (out) over, tower over or above, rise above, overshadow; predominate: The Eiffel Tower dominates the Parisian skyline.
DOMINION|11|n. 1 rule, authority, control, dominance, domination, grasp, mastery, grip, command, jurisdiction, power, sovereignty, sway, ascendancy, pre-eminence, primacy, supremacy, hegemony: The magician claimed dominion over the entire universe. 2 domain, realm, territory, region, area, country, kingdom: For six generations the dynasty ruled over its dominions on five continents.
DONATION|9|n. 1 gift, contribution, largesse, present, grant, award, alms, offering, bequest: Donations have exceeded our expectations. 2 giving, contribution, bestowal, allotment, provision, offer: We are seeking the donation of a piano for our theatre group.
DOUBTFUL|14|adj. 1 in doubt, dubious, questionable, open to question, problematic, debatable, disputable, uncertain, unpredictable, indeterminate, unsettled, unresolved, conjectural, indefinite, unclear, obscure, vague, anybody's guess , Colloq up in the air: The result is very doubtful. 2 sceptical, unconvinced, distrustful, mistrustful, suspicious, uncertain, unsure, hesitant, hesitating, vacillating, indecisive: I am doubtful whether an investigation will yield anything. 3 dubious, questionable, shady, louche, disreputable, controversial: Those are people of doubtful reputation.
DOWNFALL|13|n. ruin, undoing, d÷bçcle, collapse, degradation, defeat, overthrow, breakdown: Selling the company to the conglomerate spelt its downfall.
DOWNPOUR|14|n. rainstorm, deluge, inundation, cloudburst, thunder-shower, thunderstorm, torrential rain, torrent; monsoon: We got caught in that downpour without an umbrella.
DOWNWARD|16|adj. declining, sliding, slipping, spiralling, descending, going or heading or moving down: This downward trend in the market will soon be reversed.
DRAMATIC|13|adj. 1 theatric(al), dramaturgic(al), Thespian, histrionic, stage: She was studying the dramatic works of Shakespeare. There will be a festival of dramatic arts at the centre next week. 2 vivid, sensational, startling, breathtaking, sudden, striking, noticeable, extraordinary, impressive, marked, shocking, expressive, graphic, effective; complete, considerable, radical, major: A dramatic change has come over him since meeting her. 3 flamboyant, melodramatic, colourful, showy, stirring, spectacular; theatrical, histrionic, exaggerated, overdone: His presentation was quite dramatic, well staged and with much arm-waving.
DRAWBACK|12|n. disadvantage, hindrance, stumbling-block, obstacle, impediment, hurdle, obstruction, snag, problem, difficulty, hitch, catch, handicap, liability, flaw, defect, detriment, Colloq fly in the ointment; Taboo nigger in the woodpile: Lack of education is a serious drawback to getting a good job.
DREADFUL|13|adj. 1 bad, awful, terrible, Colloq rotten, Slang lousy: That TV soap opera is simply dreadful. 2 grievous, dire, horrible, horrendous, horrifying, horrid, monstrous, fearful, feared, frightful, dread, frightening, shocking, alarming, appalling, fearsome, hideous, ghastly, atrocious, heinous, wicked, evil, iniquitous, villainous, flagitious, fiendish, diabolical, devilish, demonic, malevolent, maleficent, malefic, Colloq scary: They did the most dreadful things to political prisoners.
DRUDGERY|14|n. toil, labour, moil, travail, (hack) work, donkey-work, chore, slog, slogging, slavery, Colloq grind, sweat, Brit skivvying, fag: She wanted some relief from the sheer drudgery of housework.
DRUGGIST|7|n. pharmacist, apothecary, Brit chemist: Only a druggist is qualified to dispense this medication.
DWELLING|7|n. abode, habitation, dwelling-place, house, domicile, lodging, quarters, home, residence, homestead: His dwelling is a shanty in old shanty town.
DYNAMISM|16|n. energy, vigour, pep, vitality, liveliness, spirit, spiritedness, forcefulness, power, drive, initiative, enterprise, Colloq get-up-and-go, zip, push: That woman has the dynamism needed to get ahead in this organization.
ECONOMIC|14|adj. 1 financial, fiscal, pecuniary, monetary, budgetary; commercial, mercantile, trade: The economic indicators for July affected the markets. 2 profitable, cost-effective, money-making, remunerative, productive; solvent: Increased demand for our products has made the company economic.
ECSTATIC|12|adj. exhilarated, thrilled, exultant, blissful, euphoric, rapturous, enraptured, nympholeptic, enchanted, transported, rhapsodic, excited, elated, delighted, joyful, gleeful, overjoyed, happy, glad, beside oneself, delirious, orgasmic, Colloq on cloud nine, Brit over the moon, in the seventh heaven, cock-a-hoop, US in seventh heaven, flying: Our team had won an Olympic gold medal, and we were truly ecstatic.
EDUCATED|12|adj. 1 cultivated, cultured, erudite, well-read, lettered, literary, scholarly, learned; (well-)informed, knowledgeable, enlightened: There is no real evidence that educated people enjoy greater job satisfaction than those who leave school at 16. I haven't got the answer, but I could make an educated guess. 2 refined, polished, cultivated, civilized; discerning, critical, sensitive: She has an educated palate and really knows her wines.
EFFUSIVE|9|adj. demonstrative, gushing, (over)enthusiastic, unrestrained, unchecked, unreserved, expansive, emotional, exuberant, rhapsodic, ebullient, lavish, voluble, profuse; fulsome: Her aunt greeted her with an effusive outpouring of affection.
EGOISTIC|11|adj. egoistical, self-centred, egocentric, narcissistic, self-seeking, self-absorbed, selfish, self-serving, self-indulgent, self-important: She is too egoistic to consider anyone but herself.
EJECTION|17|n. 1 expulsion, casting out or up, disgorgement, vomiting forth, throwing out or up, discharge, emission, disgorging: The ejection of lava was preceded by loud rumblings. 2 exile, expulsion, banishment, deportation, ouster, removal; eviction, dispossession: His ejection from the meeting angered his supporters. My ejection by the landlord was illegal. 3 dismissal, discharge, cong÷, cashiering, lay-off, Colloq firing, sacking, Slang the sack, the boot, the axe, the (old) heave-ho, US the bounce: Business was bad, and the entire staff was faced with ejection.
ELECTION|10|n. poll, vote, referendum, plebiscite; selection, choice, choosing, nomination, designation, appointment; voting, electing: They held an election and Michael lost. The election of a new social secretary is required.
ELECTRIC|12|adj. charged, tense, energized, stimulating, exciting, thrilling, galvanizing, electrifying, moving, stirring: As the jury filed in, the atmosphere in the courtroom was electric.
ELEGANCE|11|n. 1 refinement, grace, tastefulness, good taste, gentility, polish, courtliness, culture, politeness, politesse, propriety, dignity: Where but in 18th-century France could one find such elegance? 2 luxury, grandeur, luxuriousness, sumptuousness, exquisiteness, splendour, beauty: The overwhelming elegance of the palace took our breath away.
ELEVATED|12|adj. 1 raised, upraised, uplifted, lifted (up): Only three hands were elevated in opposition and the motion was carried. 2 uplifted, noble, lofty, high, grand, exalted, dignified, eminent, pre-eminent, ennobled, prominent, notable, illustrious, distinguished, imposing, impressive, sublime: He has rather elevated notions of morality. 3 elated, cheerful, happy, exhilarated, animated, joyful, glad: Her elevated spirits and pleasant countenance make her a welcome guest.
ELIGIBLE|6|adj. 1 fit, worthy, qualified, proper, suitable, appropriate, fitting: Is he an eligible candidate for the post? 2 single, unmarried, unwed, available: He is one of the few eligible bachelors in the town.
ELOQUENT|6|adj. 1 expressive, articulate, silver-tongued, fluent, well-spoken, effective, persuasive, convincing, cogent, trenchant, incisive, graphic, vivid, striking, facile, smooth, glib, oratorical, rhetorical: He was an eloquent speaker. He rose and gave an eloquent speech. 2 suggestive, meaningful, pregnant: His eyebrow was raised in eloquent scepticism.
EMBEZZLE|10|v. misappropriate, peculate, misapply, misuse, steal, make off or away with, filch, pilfer, purloin, Law defalcate; Colloq have one's hand in the till: The treasurer had embezzled half a million from the company.
EMPHASIS|15|n. importance, stress, significance, prominence, attention, weight, gravity, force, moment, pre-eminence, priority, underscoring, underlining, Technical paralipsis: They place too much emphasis on the social aspects of school.
EMPHATIC|17|adj. firm, uncompromising, determined, decided, resolute, dogged; earnest, definite, unequivocal, unambiguous, distinct, dogmatic, categorical, peremptory, explicit, incisive, insistent, affirmative, positive, sure, certain, unmistakable or unmistakeable, specific, definitive, direct; forceful, vigorous, energetic, assertive, intense; express, pronounced, strong: She was emphatic about leaving then and there.
EMPLOYEE|13|n. worker, staff member, wage-earner; hand: The employees are on strike.
EMPLOYER|15|n. 1 proprietor, owner, patron, manager, director, chief, head, Colloq boss, Brit gaffer, governor, Eye dialect guv'nor, guv: My employer comes in late every day. 2 company, firm, corporation, business, establishment, organization, Colloq outfit: She took her employer to court for unfair dismissal.
ENCIRCLE|8|v. surround, gird, circle, enclose, ring, encompass, compass, confine, hem or hold in; wreathe: When the horde encircled the castle we thought we were doomed.
ENCROACH|8|v. Often, encroach on or upon. intrude, trespass, infringe, invade, make inroads: When you mention arctophily, you're encroaching on my territory.
ENCUMBER|14|v. 1 burden, weigh down, load (up or down), overload, overburden, strain, oppress, saddle, tax, overtax: Encumbered with intolerable taxes, the people revolted. She almost drowned because she was encumbered with her numerous petticoats. 2 hamper, impede, hinder, handicap, inconvenience, trammel, retard, slow down: Though encumbered by an invalid husband, she managed to qualify as a barrister.
ENDURING|6|adj. lasting, long-lasting, durable, abiding, continuing, long-standing, persisting, persistent, remaining, steady, steadfast; eternal, immortal, permanent: Their enduring faith carried them through the ordeal.
ENERGIZE|18|v. enliven, liven up, stimulate, animate, invigorate, activate, actuate, move, motivate, galvanize, electrify, inspire, inspirit, pep up, waken, rouse, stir, arouse, excite, egg on, urge: Max's enthusiasm energized the whole of the research team.
ENERVATE|11|v. weaken, tire, strain, enfeeble, debilitate, fatigue, exhaust, drain, sap, wear out, devitalize, break, defeat: I have always found the tropics quite enervating.
ENGAGING|7|adj. charming, pleasant, attractive, winsome, winning, appealing, agreeable, delightful, pleasing, likeable, friendly, open: With her engaging personality, it is no wonder she has so many friends.
ENGINEER|7|n. 1 designer, originator, inventor, contriver, architect, planner, mastermind: The engineer of this scheme was one David Jones. 2 (engine-) driver, conductor, operator: He was the engineer on the afternoon train out of Washington. 3 mechanic, technician, repairman: The telephone engineers will be here on Monday to install a new phone system. --v. 4 devise, plan, develop, originate, contrive, invent, mastermind, construct, build, make: It is said that Daedalus engineered the first man-made wings. 5 manipulate, scheme, plot, machinate, intrigue, connive, conspire, manoeuvre, rig, set up, organize, arrange, put over, Colloq finagle, wangle, swing: She tried to engineer the laundering of the money, but was caught.
ENORMITY|13|n. outrageousness, outrage, atrociousness, atrocity, wickedness, heinousness, flagitiousness, horribleness, horror, barbarity, savagery, monstrousness, horridness, evil, viciousness: The enormity of the crime shocked us all.
ENORMOUS|7|adj. huge, immense, gigantic, elephantine, gargantuan, mammoth, titanic, colossal, tremendous, vast, massive, stupendous, Brobdingnagian, gross, monstrous, prodigious: An enormous dragon blocked their way out of the cave.
ENSEMBLE|7|n. 1 outfit, costume, clothing, clothes, attire, apparel, garb, garments, coordinates, Colloq get-up: A black hat, gloves, and shoes completed the ensemble. 2 band, combination, orchestra, group; chorus, choir; Colloq combo: A new chamber music ensemble is performing tonight at the town hall. 3 assemblage, composite, aggregate, collection, set, whole, entirety, totality; agglomeration, conglomeration: A strange ensemble of objects was on display.
ENTANGLE|9|v. 1 tangle, ensnarl, snarl, enmesh, catch (up), entrap, snag, foul, implicate, knot (up), twist; impede; involve, embroil: The propeller became entangled in the seaweed so that the boat couldn't move. 2 confuse, mix (up), twist, snarl, ensnarl, ensnare, hamper, complicate, confound, bewilder, perplex, embarrass: He became entangled in a web of social and business liaisons.
ENTIRELY|11|adv. 1 completely, wholly, altogether, fully, totally, utterly, unreservedly, unqualifiedly, unexceptionally, in every respect, in all respects, thoroughly, to a T, in toto, exhaustively, all out, from head to toe or foot, (right) down to the ground, from A to Z, lock, stock and barrel, root and branch, without exception or reservation: She was entirely satisfied. I agree with that entirely. 2 solely, exclusively, only, unambiguously, unequivocally; positively, definitely, clearly: It was entirely my fault.
ENTIRETY|11|n. 1 completeness, unity, totality, wholeness, fullness, integrity, perfection: Any chance of completing his mission in its entirety had vanished. 2 whole, sum total, everything, all: The entirety of the bequest amounted to a million francs.
ENTRANCE|10|n. 1 (right of) entry, access, admission, admittance, entr÷e, introduction: You need security clearance to gain entrance. 2 entry, entry-way, access, door, gate, passage, way (in); ingress: The entrance is locked after midnight. 3 arrival, appearance; coming, entry, coming or going in: Her entrances were accompanied by cheers. He opposed our entrance into the war. 4 beginning, start, commencement: Today marks his entrance into his new duties.
ENVIABLE|8|adj. desirable, wanted, desired, sought-after, covetable, in demand: He is in an enviable financial position.
ENVISAGE|12|v. 1 visualize, contemplate, imagine, picture, conceive (of), fancy, think or dream or conjure up, Chiefly US envision: Envisage a city built entirely of glass. 2 foresee, see, predict, forecast, anticipate: I envisage a time when all people will be free.
ENVISION|11|v. envisage, visualize, imagine, conceive of, foresee, anticipate, predict, forecast, prophesy: I envision great success for you.
EPIDEMIC|15|adj. 1 widespread, universal, prevalent, prevailing, rampant, general, wide-ranging, pandemic: The disease has reached epidemic proportions. --n. 2 plague, pestilence, scourge, rash, growth, upsurge, outbreak, spread: An epidemic of anthrax has affected the cattle.
EQUALITY|9|n. 1 parity, sameness, identity, coequality, uniformity: The equality of the two bids was very suspicious. 2 similarity, likeness, resemblance, equivalence, correspondence, conformity, congruence, similitude, analogy, comparability, comparison, coincidence: The equality between their performances is surprising. 3 impartiality, fairness, justice; egalitarianism: Surely we all deserve equality of treatment under the law.
EQUALIZE|15|v. regularize, even up, square, balance, equate, match, standardize, (make) equal: Equalize the amounts of liquid in all the containers.
ESTIMATE|10|v. 1 approximate, gauge, determine, judge, guess; assess, appraise, value, evaluate, reckon, calculate, work out, Colloq guestimate or guesstimate: Experts estimated the cost of restoration at ø10,000. 2 consider, think, believe, guess, conjecture, judge: I estimate our chances of success as very low. --n. 3 approximation, gauge, guess, conjecture, assessment, appraisal, evaluation, reckoning, calculation, Colloq guestimate or guesstimate: What is your estimate of the company's value? 4 estimation, belief, opinion, judgement, thinking, feeling, sentiment, sense, (point of) view, viewpoint: My estimate of his abilities is that he is not the man for the job.
ETERNITY|11|n. endlessness, everlastingness, unendingness, boundlessness, perpetuity, timelessness, infinity: Many religions believe in the eternity of the soul.
EULOGIZE|18|v. praise, extol, laud, applaud, compliment, sound or sing the praises of, acclaim; appreciate, honour; flatter: Kirk was eulogized for his contribution to space travel.
EVACUATE|13|v. 1 empty, clear (out), exhaust, drain, deplete, purge, get rid of, void, discharge, vent; divest, deprive: In cases of poisoning, they first evacuate the stomach. 2 vacate, desert, leave, depart (from), withdraw or retire (from), go away (from), quit, relinquish, abandon, decamp (from), move or pull out (of or from): When the enemy approached, the troops evacuated the area. 3 relocate, move: Thousands were evacuated to a safe distance when the bomb was discovered.
EVALUATE|11|v. 1 value, appraise, assess: You must be an expert to evaluate netsuke. 2 judge, rank, rate, gauge, estimate, approximate, calculate, reckon, compute, figure, quantify, determine, ascertain: How can they evaluate your importance to the project?
EVENTFUL|14|adj. busy, full, active, lively, exciting, interesting; important, significant, signal, consequential, notable, noteworthy, momentous, memorable: What with your wedding and the birth of your son, it certainly has been an eventful week.
EVENTUAL|11|adj. 1 ultimate, final, last, concluding, resulting: The eventual cost is impossible to forecast. 2 due, expected, anticipated, inevitable, likely, consequent, resulting, resultant, foreordained, preordained, unavoidable, destined, predestined, unavoidable, ineluctable, probable: As they cannot afford the mortgage payments, they are faced with the eventual loss of their home.
EVERYDAY|18|adj. 1 daily, day-to-day, quotidian, diurnal; circadian: In our family a big breakfast was an everyday occurrence. 2 commonplace, common, ordinary, customary, regular, habitual, routine, usual, run-of-the-mill, unexceptional, accustomed, conventional, familiar: She found herself unable to cope with everyday tasks that she used to take in her stride. 3 prosaic, mundane, dull, unimaginative, unexciting, mediocre, inferior: These are very everyday paintings of little value.
EVERYONE|14|pron. everybody, all (and sundry), one and all, each and every one or person, the whole world, everybody under the sun, every Tom, Dick, and Harry: Everyone will want to come to my party.
EVICTION|13|n. ouster, dispossession, dislodgement, expulsion, ejection, removal, Law disseisin or disseizin, Colloq the boot: His eviction from the club was for refusing to wear a tie.
EVIDENCE|14|n. 1 proof, ground(s), fact(s), data, basis, support, verification, attestation, affirmation, confirmation, validation, corroboration, substantiation, documentation, certification: Have we enough evidence to convict the suspects? 2 testimony, statement, deposition, affidavit, averment, assertion: The prosecution will present its evidence tomorrow. 3 indication, sign, mark, token, manifestation, demonstration, hint, suggestion, clue, trace, smoking gun: There is evidence that there are mice in the house. --v. 4 demonstrate, show, display, manifest, signify, exhibit, reveal, denote, attest, prove, evince, testify, (bear) witness: The destruction of the forests is evidenced by the open plains.
EXACTING|14|adj. demanding, rigorous, difficult, rigid, stern, hard, tough, severe, harsh, burdensome, taxing, stringent, imperative, unsparing, oppressive, tyrannical: I know of no more exacting job than that of air traffic controller.
EXCAVATE|20|v. 1 dig (out or up), hollow or gouge (out), scoop out, burrow or cut (out): They are excavating a great hole in the centre of the site. 2 unearth, uncover, expose, clear, lay bare, dig up, disinter, bring up, exhume: A large part of Pompeii has been excavated.
EXCHANGE|14|v. 1 trade, barter, switch, change, interchange, reciprocate, return, Colloq swap or swop: We exchange gifts every Christmas. --n. 2 trade, barter, change, traffic, commerce, dealing, truck, transfer, interchange, reciprocity, reciprocation, switch, quid pro quo, tit for tat, Colloq swap or swop: An exchange of prisoners was negotiated. What can I do for you in exchange? 3 altercation, argument, quarrel, disagreement, unpleasantness: We had a brief exchange, then he struck me. 4 market, stock market, Stock Exchange, securities exchange, the Market, the Board, the Big Board, the Exchange, the Bourse, Wall Street, US the Street: The exchange reported little activity in anticipation of the finance minister's speech.
EXCITING|10|adj. 1 stimulating, intoxicating, heady, thrilling, stirring, moving, inspiring, rousing, exhilarating, electrifying, galvanizing, energizing, invigorating; overwhelming, overpowering, astounding, astonishing, amazing, mind-boggling, Colloq far-out, rip-roaring, mind-blowing: Orbiting the world in the space shuttle was the most exciting experience of my life. 2 seductive, sensuous, voluptuous, ravishing, captivating, charming, tempting, enticing, alluring, provocative, titillating, Colloq sexy: Fenella is truly an exciting young woman.
EXERCISE|13|v. 1 employ, use, apply, practise, bring to bear, put to use or effect; discharge, exert, wield, execute; utilize, effect: Try to exercise better judgement next time. The chairman exercises too much authority. 2 work out, limber up, warm up, train, drill: She exercises for an hour every day. 3 harass, annoy, irritate, vex, harry, distress, worry, concern, burden, try, trouble, perturb, disturb, agitate, make nervous, Colloq drive crazy, drive up the wall: We have been much exercised over the issue of acid rain. --n. 4 activity, workout, working-out, warm-up, warming up, callisthenics, aerobics, isometrics, gymnastics; training, drill, drilling: Exercise is good for the heart. 5 action, application, practice, performance, discharge, use, utilization, employment, execution, operation: We expect the exercise of your best endeavours.
EXERTION|15|n. action, effort, striving, strain, work, struggle, toil, drive, push, diligence, industry, assiduity, assiduousness, sedulousness, sedulity, Colloq US stick-to-it-iveness: By considerable exertion, we finished on time. He was tired after all his exertions.
EXPEDITE|18|v. 1 hasten, rush, hurry, speed or step up, accelerate; dispatch or despatch: The shipment has been expedited and should reach you tomorrow. 2 advance, facilitate, promote, forward, ease, enable: The growing process can be expedited by adding this chemical.
EXPLICIT|15|adj. 1 specific, categorical, (crystal-)clear, definite, well-defined, distinct, unambiguous, precise, exact, unequivocal, express, stated, plain, manifest, unmistakable, positive, absolute, final, peremptory, unqualified, unconditional: The children had explicit instructions to keep away from the canal. 2 open, outspoken, unreserved, unrestrained, candid, frank, direct, forthright, straightforward, definite: She was explicit in her orders.
EXPOSURE|17|n. 1 baring, uncovering, laying open, unveiling, disclosure, disclosing, unmasking, revealing, revelation, expos÷, airing, publication, publishing, communicating, communication, leaking, leak, divulging: The exposure of the spy was part of the plan. 2 jeopardy, risk, hazard, endangerment, vulnerability, imperilment; danger, peril: By diversifying your investments, you reduce your exposure to a loss in just one. 3 familiarity, knowledge, acquaintance, experience, contact, conversancy: My exposure to Chinese philosophy has been negligible. 4 aspect, view, outlook, orientation, frontage; setting, location, direction: She said that she preferred a bedroom with an easterly exposure.
EXTERIOR|15|adj. 1 outer, outside, external, outward, superficial, surface: The exterior covering of the capsule becomes very hot on re-entry into the earth's atmosphere. 2 external, extrinsic, extraneous, foreign, alien, exotic, outside: The problem can be overcome without exterior help. --n. 3 outside, surface, covering, coating, facing, face, front, skin, shell, faúade: The exterior is of pink stucco.
EXTERNAL|15|adj. 1 outer, outside, outward, exterior: This medication is for external use only. 2 outside, exterior, extrinsic, extraneous, alien, foreign, exotic: Do not ignore the external influences on the nation's economy. 3 apparent, visible, perceptible, superficial, surface: The external features of the planet barely suggest what lies within.
EXULTANT|15|adj. delighted, jubilant, overjoyed, elated, joyful, gleeful, glad, ecstatic, exuberant, in seventh heaven, cock-a-hoop, Colloq on cloud nine, Brit over the moon: We were exultant to learn that the war was over.
FABULOUS|10|adj. 1 fabled, mythic(al), celebrated, legendary, storied, fictitious, fictional, unreal, fanciful, imaginary, story-book, fairy-tale: Greek mythology tells us of a fabulous winged horse called Pegasus. 2 fantastic, marvellous, incredible, unbelievable, inconceivable, wonderful, astounding, astonishing, amazing, wondrous, extraordinary, miraculous, phenomenal: Houses in London were selling at fabulous prices. 3 superb, marvellous, terrific, great, wonderful, Colloq great, super, smashing, thumping, whopping, thundering, rattling, howling, US neat, keen, Slang fab, hot, far-out, cool, Old-fashioned fantabulous, in the groove, groovy, ace, Brit magic, US and Canadian copacetic: I saw an absolutely fabulous new film the other night.
FACILITY|12|n. 1 ease, smoothness, fluency, effortlessness, readiness, easiness, skill, skilfulness, deftness, dexterity, adroitness, ability, aptitude, expertise, expertness, proficiency, mastery, masterfulness, masterliness, efficiency; quickness, alacrity, celerity, swiftness, speed: They praised her new-found facility with the Italian language. 2 Often, facilities. a plant, system, building(s), structure, complex: The company is building a new facility in France. b convenience(s), privy, equipment, lavatory, toilet, powder-room, Nautical head, Brit water-closet, WC, loo, US and Canadian rest room, men's room, ladies' room, Colloq the Gents, the Ladies('), Slang Brit bog, karzy, US and Canadian john: An American asked where he could find the facilities.
FACTIOUS|10|adj. contentious, disputatious, litigious, refractory, divisive, conflicting, discordant, argumentative, at odds, at loggerheads, quarrelsome, seditious, mutinous, rebellious: A factious Congress spells trouble for the President.
FAITHFUL|12|adj. 1 true, loyal, devoted, steadfast, dedicated, attached, unswerving, firm, staunch, unwavering, constant: He has always remained faithful to his wife. 2 close, exact, accurate, true, correct, precise, perfect, valid; literal: Jowett's is a faithful translation from the Greek. 3 conscientious, dutiful, scrupulous, careful, meticulous, thorough, punctilious, finicky or finical, detailed, fastidious, rigorous, rigid, severe, particular: He received a gold watch for fifty years of faithful attendance to his duties. 4 reliable, dependable, trusted, trustworthy, trusty, honest, true, truthful, righteous, right, moral, virtuous, upright, veracious: He has remained my faithful friend for many years.
FAMILIAR|13|adj. 1 well-known, common, commonplace, everyday, ordinary, current: That's a familiar melody. 2 frequent, usual, customary, habitual, routine, traditional: He strolled along his familiar route through the trees. 3 friendly, affable, close, intimate, sociable, social, free, free and easy, relaxed; over-friendly, overfree, overfamiliar, bold, forward, insolent, impudent, presumptuous, presuming, disrespectful, unreserved, unrestrained; informal, casual, cordial, unceremonious; Colloq chummy, Slang US and Canadian buddy-buddy, palsy-walsy: She began to get entirely too familiar. 4 familiar with. aware or conscious or cognizant of, knowledgeable about or of or in, conversant or acquainted with, no stranger to, on speaking terms with, up on or in, (well-)versed in, informed of or about, privy to, in the know about, au courant, au fait: Are you familiar with the latest theories in particle physics?
FAMISHED|12|adj. starving, starved, voracious, ravenous, ravening, craving, hungry: The survivors were famished after a fortnight in the lifeboat.
FAMOUSLY|13|adv. excellently, (very) well, superbly, marvellously, splendidly, capitally, spectacularly, superlatively: The prince and I get on famously.
FANCIFUL|12|adj. 1 whimsical, capricious, impulsive, inconstant, fickle, changeable, variable: Those graffiti are products of a fanciful mind. 2 extravagant, chimerical, fantastic, fabulous, mythical, fairy-tale, imaginative, fancied, make-believe, unreal, illusory, imagined, visionary, imaginary: Some of the more fanciful ideas of science fiction have become realities. 3 curious, odd, peculiar, bizarre, unusual, original: The chalice was decorated with fanciful curlicues.
FARCICAL|11|adj. ludicrous, laughable, risible, funny, nonsensical, ridiculous, silly, preposterous, absurd, foolish; comical, humorous, droll, amusing: His farcical attempts at surfing fully dressed had us in hysterics.
FAREWELL|12|n. 1 adieu, goodbye: We said our farewells and left. 2 departure, leave-taking, cong÷, parting, Colloq send-off: I want to avoid a tearful farewell. --interjection. 3 Adieu!, Goodbye!, So long!, Godspeed!, Adios!, Hasta luego!, Hasta la vista!, Auf Wiedersehen!, Ciao!, Sayonara!, Aloha!, Vaya con Dios!, Colloq Brit God bless!, Old-fashioned Toodle-oo!, Pip! Pip!, Ta-ta!, US old-fashioned See you later (alligator)!, Don't take any wooden nickels!: I said farewell and we went our separate ways.
FATALITY|14|n. 1 catastrophe, disaster, calamity, cataclysm: The eruption of Vesuvius was a relatively recent fatality. 2 death, casualty: Traffic fatalities are on the increase.
FATHERLY|12|adj. paternal, kindly, kind, warm, friendly, affectionate, protective, amiable, benevolent, well-meaning, benign, caring, sympathetic, indulgent, understanding; parental: My nephew used to come to me for fatherly advice.
FATIGUED|13|adj. weary, wearied, tired, overtired, dead tired, weak, weakened, exhausted, listless, lethargic, languorous, sluggish, enervated, strained, wasted, Colloq whacked (out), knocked out, dead, beat, dead-beat, all in, Brit knackered, jiggered, buggered, US and Canadian pooped, bushed: The firemen were fatigued after being on duty round the clock.
FAVOURED|15|adj. 1 preferred, chosen, choice, selected, popular, favourite, pet: The favoured explanation is that he is the boss's son. 2 advantaged, privileged, blessed, prosperous, wealthy, rich, affluent, well off: She is one of the favoured few who can afford to travel.
FEARLESS|9|adj. brave, bold, intrepid, valorous, dauntless, courageous, valiant, plucky, daring, audacious, heroic, venturesome, gallant, chivalrous: These fearless commandos cared nothing for their personal safety.
FEARSOME|13|adj. dreadful, awesome, appalling, formidable, daunting, frightening, frightful, awe-inspiring, menacing, terrible, terrifying, intimidating: Last week's typhoon was the most fearsome storm of the century.
FEASIBLE|8|adj. practicable, workable, doable, applicable, viable, practical, possible, realizable, achievable, attainable, sensible, usable, realistic: The world needs a feasible method for disposing of nuclear waste.
FEMININE|13|adj. 1 female, womanlike, womanly, ladylike, submissive, deferential, amenable, gentle, docile, tender, soft, delicate: She is much more feminine than her sister. 2 effeminate, womanish, unmanly, unmasculine, sissy or Brit cissy, sissified or Brit cissified, effete, affected: Barry's manner and behaviour seem to become more feminine every day.
FESTIVAL|14|n. 1 holiday, holy day, féte, feast, commemoration, anniversary: He wanted to be with his family for the Christmas festival. 2 celebration, féte, festivities, carnival, entertainment, red-letter day, gala day, anniversary, birthday: The town organizes a festival every autumn.
FETCHING|6|adj. attractive, alluring, taking, winsome, winning, cute, enchanting, charming, captivating, intriguing: Fingal's sister is a fetching young lass.
FEVERISH|12|adj. inflamed, flushed, burning, fiery, hot, ardent, fervent, hot-blooded, passionate, frenzied, frantic, excited, frenetic, zealous; Pathology febrile, pyretic, pyrexic: I was looking forward to our rendezvous with feverish excitement.
FIENDISH|10|adj. cruel, savage, inhuman, monstrous, ghoulish, malignant, malevolent, malicious, wicked, evil, bad, black-hearted, satanic, devilish, Mephistophelian, demonic, demoniac(al), diabolic(al), cacodemonic, hellish, infernal: He sniggered with fiendish glee as he tightened the thumbscrew.
FIERCELY|16|adv. very, extremely, exceedingly, vehemently, intensely, impetuously, violently, furiously, ferociously, viciously, savagely: She refuses to deal with anyone who is so fiercely competitive.
FINALITY|14|n. conclusiveness, decisiveness, unalterability, irreversibility, irrevocableness, incontrovertibility, irrefutability, indisputability, unchangeability, immutability, definitiveness, certainty, certitude, sureness, fixedness: There is an air of finality in the way she gives orders.
FINALIZE|20|v. conclude, settle, complete, decide, Colloq wrap up, clinch, sew up: We finalized the agreement yesterday by signing the contract.
FIXATION|18|n. mania, obsession, compulsion, fixed idea, id÷e fixe, fetish, monomania, preoccupation, infatuation, Colloq hang-up, thing, kick: He has a health-food fixation.
FLAGRANT|12|adj. blatant, brazen, bold, barefaced, audacious, arrant, glaring, outrageous, shocking, shameless, scandalous, atrocious, infamous, notorious, defiant, egregious, obvious, conspicuous, open, complete, out-and-out, utter, flagitious, monstrous, heinous, cruel, villainous, treacherous, nefarious, awful, gross, rank, inconsiderate, scornful, contemptuous; reprehensible; contemptible: Speeding shows a flagrant disregard for the safety of others.
FLATTERY|12|n. adulation, cajolery, blandishment, sweet talk, beguilement, wheedling, gloze, Colloq soft soap, Slang boot-licking, Taboo brown-nosing, Brit arse-kissing, arse-licking, bum-sucking, US ass-kissing, ass-licking: A judicious use of flattery moved him up the corporate ladder.
FLAWLESS|12|adj. 1 perfect, pristine, pure, uncorrupted, chaste, virgin, intact, whole, clean, immaculate, unsullied, unspoilt, unsoiled, impeccable, unblemished, faultless, undamaged, unimpaired, spotless, untarnished: Two flawless artefacts were found in the tomb. Many envied her flawless reputation. 2 undeniable, unassailable, unimpeachable, unquestionable, irrefutable, foolproof, sound, demonstrable: The prosecutor's evidence appears to be flawless.
FLEETING|6|adj. transitory, fugitive, transient, temporary, passing, ephemeral, fugacious, evanescent, momentary, short-lived, fly-by-night, short, brief: I caught only a fleeting glimpse of the car as it sped by.
FLEXIBLE|15|adj. 1 pliable, pliant, elastic, resilient, supple, bendable, limber, lithe, stretchy, stretchable, springy, extensible or extensile, ductile, flexile, tensile, yielding, willowy: The foil is a thin, flexible duelling sword. 2 modifiable, adaptable, conformable, compliant, malleable, obedient, tractable, manageable, cooperative, amenable, persuadable or persuasible: English seems to be an infinitely flexible language. Nicole is flexible in her attitude towards politics. 3 easy, facile, submissive, complaisant, docile: Discipline at the school might be a little too flexible.
FLIPPANT|9|adj. 1 frivolous, facetious, light-hearted, jocular, offhand(ed), unserious, shallow, thoughtless, superficial; supercilious, belittling, scornful, dismissive: I don't appreciate your flippant remarks when I'm trying to be serious. 2 disrespectful, impudent, impertinent, irreverent, saucy, rude, pert, discourteous, brazen, brash, insolent, Colloq cheeky, flip: He disapproves of Charles's flippant attitude towards the royal family.
FLOUNDER|12|v. grope, blunder, stumble, tumble, struggle, stagger, plunge about: We floundered about in the dark till someone found the light switch.
FLOURISH|9|v. 1 prosper, thrive, grow, develop, luxuriate, bloom, blossom, flower, bear fruit, fructify, boom, burgeon or bourgeon, mature, ripen, increase, succeed, get ahead, do or fare well, make good; go up or rise in the world; Slang go great guns: We understand that Amy's medical practice has flourished. 2 wave, wield, brandish, wag, swing, twirl, flaunt, vaunt, swagger, swish, shake: The band-leader flourished his baton. --n. 3 decoration, embellishment, floridness, floweriness, ornamentation, elaboration, adornment, frill, embroidery, curlicue, furbelow: His signature is characterized by all these flourishes. 4 fanfare, display, show, showiness, dash, gesturing, wave: With a flourish of his hand, the king signalled the tourney to begin.
FOLLOWER|12|n. 1 disciple, adherent, student, pupil, apprentice, prot÷g÷(e): They were followers of Buddha. 2 attendant, henchman, servant, retainer, bodyguard, myrmidon: Louie walked in with two of his followers. 3 supporter, devotee, fan, aficionado, promoter, enthusiast, booster, advocate, proponent, US rooter, Colloq groupie: She is a faithful follower of The Dirty Knees, a rock group.
FOLLOWUP|14|n. reinforcement, support, backup, bolstering; consolidation: The failure of the sales campaign was attributed to lack of follow-up.
FOOTSTEP|11|n. 1 step, footfall, tread: I recognized her footstep. 2 Usually, footsteps. footprint(s), track, trail, trace, spoor, footmark(s); tradition, example, way of life: He followed in his master's footsteps.
FORCEFUL|16|adj. 1 vigorous, energetic, compelling, dynamic, intense, potent, strong, mighty, powerful, aggressive, weighty, effective, convincing, persuasive: The colonel was known as a forceful leader of men. 2 effective, efficacious, cogent, logical, impressive, telling, convincing, persuasive, strong, mighty, forcible, powerful, compelling, irresistible; pithy, meaty: The most forceful arguments came from Catherine towards the end of the discussion.
FORCIBLE|6|adj. 1 See forceful, 2. 2 drastic, forceful, violent, aggressive, coercive, severe, stringent: The plan involves the forcible repatriation of refugees.
FOREGONE|12|adj. Usually in foregone conclusion. assumed, established, pre-established, predetermined, fixed, inevitable, set, accepted, cut and dried: His incarceration for the crime was a foregone conclusion.
FOREMOST|13|adj. 1 first, primary, prime, leading, pre-eminent, supreme; prominent, notable, noteworthy, noted, chief, paramount, main, best, superior: She is one of the foremost eye surgeons in her country. --adv. 2 first, firstly, primarily, primarily, in (the) first place, before anything else: First and foremost, we must consider the matter of safety.
FOREWORD|15|n. preface, prologue, prelude, prolegomenon, preamble, Literary proem; introduction: He set forth the purpose of the book in the foreword.
FORMERLY|16|adv. once, before, previously, hitherto, long ago, at one time, in the old days, once upon a time, in days gone by, in days or time past, time was, back then, when the world was young(er), Colloq way back or US also way back when: Formerly, there were no tall buildings to block one's view.
FOULPLAY|16|n. treachery, chicanery, perfidy, perfidiousness, duplicity, double-dealing, deception, guile, crime, sharp practice, skulduggery, dirty work or business, dirty trick(s); murder, homicide, manslaughter; Colloq hanky-panky: The travellers suspected foul play when the aeroplane failed to arrive. The hacked up corpse suggested foul play to Detective Lemaítre.
FOUNTAIN|11|n. 1 fount, spring, font, jet, spout, spray, well, well-spring, well-head, fountain-head: Bathing in the city fountains is forbidden. 2 source, origin, genesis: Miss Corbell was a fountain of wisdom on the subject of basket-weaving.
FRACTURE|13|n. 1 break, breakage, breaking: An old fracture makes him walk with a limp. 2 break, crack, split, rupture, breach, separation, cleavage, division, rift: We can permit no fracture in the united front we present to the voters. --v. 3 break, rupture, crack, split, breach, separate, cleave: He fractured three vertebrae in the accident.
FRAGMENT|14|n. 1 piece, portion, part, chip, shard or sherd, splinter, sliver, scrap, bit, speck, snippet, morsel, crumb, particle, remnant, shred, snatch: A fragment of the airliner was found twenty miles from the crash. 2 fragments. smithereens; debris, Literary disjecta membra: The car was blown into thousands of fragments. I tried to pick up the fragments of my former life. --v. 3 shatter, splinter, break or split (up), explode, disintegrate, come or go to pieces, come apart: I picked up the skull and it fragmented in my fingers.
FRAGRANT|12|adj. aromatic, odorous, redolent, perfumed, balmy, odoriferous, ambrosial, sweet-scented, sweet-smelling: A fragrant breeze wafted over the meadow.
FREEZING|15|adj. frigid, icy, arctic, frosty, boreal, hyperboreal, numbing, Siberian, polar, glacial, ice-cold, wintry, bone-chilling, bitter, biting, bitter(ly) cold, perishing, cold, chill, tooth-chattering; chilled to the bone, frozen, shivering, Archaic frore: The rescue was performed under freezing conditions. We were freezing in our thin jackets.
FREQUENT|9|adj. 1 recurrent, recurring, habitual, regular, familiar, everyday, customary, usual, ordinary, normal, common, repeated, iterative, reiterative, persistent, continuing, continual, constant; many, numerous, countless, innumerable: She was a frequent visitor at our house. She paid us frequent visits. --v. 2 haunt, patronize, visit, resort to, go to or attend regularly, Colloq hang out or around at: Yes, Inspector, I used to frequent the pub called The Saracen's Head.
FRICTION|13|n. 1 abrasion, rubbing, abrading, chafing, fretting, attrition, scraping, grating, erosion: Friction is always accompanied by heat. 2 disagreement, discord, conflict, contention, dispute, dissension, disharmony, controversy, dissent, bickering, argument, wrangling, ill feeling, ill will, bad blood, animosity, rivalry, hostility, antagonism, strife: Politics have always been a source of friction between them.
FRIENDLY|15|adj. 1 amicable, congenial, sociable, companionable, comradely, convivial, familiar, well-disposed, close, on good terms, simpatico, comfortable, at home, neighbourly, clubby, fraternal, brotherly, sisterly, Colloq chummy, pally, thick, Brit matey, US palsy-walsy, buddy-buddy: We've always been friendly with the people next door. 2 amiable, affectionate, loving, demonstrative, cordial, warm-hearted, warm, genial, agreeable, good-natured, pleasant, kind, kindly, kind-hearted, agreeable, affable, approachable, accessible, unreserved, open, Brit clubbable: Clare can be very friendly when she wants to be.
FRONTIER|11|n. front line; border, boundary, bound(s), marches, (far) reaches, limit(s), pale, extreme(s), bourn: We'll need our passports to cross the frontier into Italy.
FRUITFUL|14|adj. 1 productive, fertile, prolific, fecund; fructiferous, frugiferous, fructuous: The soil in this valley is extremely fruitful. 2 effective, worthwhile, well-spent, profitable, successful, useful, rewarding, advantageous, beneficial, productive, fertile: We had a fruitful meeting and accomplished a great deal. 3 plentiful, abundant, bounteous, bountiful, prolific, plenteous, copious, luxurious, rich, flourishing: We expect another fruitful harvest this year.
FRUITION|11|n. realization, fulfilment, consummation, achievement, success, materialization, maturity, ripeness, maturation, completion; perfection: I saw my plans for the town brought to fruition.
FUGITIVE|15|n. 1 runaway, escapee, deserter, refugee, Archaic runagate: Many fugitives from political oppression seek asylum in the UK. --adj. 2 fleeing, escaped, running away, runaway: They police are able to devote little time to tracing fugitive children. 3 fleeting, passing, brief, short-lived, transitory, transient, ephemeral, evanescent, momentary, volatile, fugacious: She once entertained the fugitive notion of becoming an opera singer.
FUMIGATE|14|v. disinfect, cleanse, purify, sanitize, sterilize, decontaminate: There have been no insects since the kitchen was fumigated.
FUNCTION|13|n. 1 purpose, aim, use, role or rõle, raison d'étre, responsibility, mission, charge, concern, business, province, duty, job, occupation, work, office, task, chore, assignment, commission, activity: A knife's function is to cut; a guard's is to stand watch. 2 reception, gathering, affair, party, dinner, banquet, gala, ceremony, formality, rite, ritual; occasion, event: We are attending a function at the embassy tonight. --v. 3 act, operate, perform, behave, work, go, run: Are you sure the engine is functioning properly? 4 serve, take the role or rõle of, act the part of, act as, work as: Dunmow will function as host in my absence.
FUNEREAL|11|adj. grave, solemn, sad, unhappy, morose, sombre, mournful, doleful, sorrowful, melancholy, gloomy, lugubrious, dismal, grievous, depressing, dreary, woeful, dark, sepulchral: Why are you in such a funereal mood?
GENEROUS|6|adj. 1 bounteous, bountiful, magnanimous, charitable, eleemosynary, philanthropic, lavish, open-handed, free, liberal, unstinting, ungrudging, beneficent, benevolent, big-hearted, munificent: Not everyone who has money is generous with it. 2 magnanimous, benevolent, charitable, unselfish, humanitarian, humane, kindly, noble, high-minded, lofty, good, disinterested, unprejudiced: He was too generous in acknowledging the accomplishments of his political foes. 3 plentiful, full, lavish, overflowing, abundant, bounteous, handsome, copious, ample: They certainly serve generous portions at that restaurant.
GHOULISH|10|adj. 1 devilish, demonic, satanic, diabolic(al), fiendish, demoniac(al), cacodemonic, Mephistophelian; infernal, hellish, malign: The coven engage in the most ghoulish practices. 2 macabre, grisly, morbid, gruesome, disgusting, monstrous, abominable, hideous, horrendous, horrible, horrifying, horrid, brutal, barbaric, savage, ruthless, pitiless, merciless, cruel, vicious, feral, inhuman, bloodthirsty, ferocious, Colloq sick: She has some ghoulish notions about being eaten alive by rats.
GIGANTIC|12|adj. big, large, huge, enormous, massive, giant, colossal, immense, mammoth, tremendous, stupendous, towering, staggering, vast, titanic, gargantuan, elephantine, Cyclopean, Herculean, Brobdingnagian; king-size, extra-large, Colloq jumbo, walloping, whopping, thumping, thundering, strapping, super-duper, US humongous: The gigantic tower, reaching to the heavens, appeared before us.
GINGERLY|9|adv. 1 warily, cautiously, charily, carefully, delicately, fastidious, daintily, squeamishly, tentatively, nervously, cannily, circumspectly, guardedly, watchfully, timidly, timorously, shyly: Handle that nitroglycerine very gingerly. --adj. 2 wary, cautious, chary, careful, fastidious, delicate, dainty, squeamish, tentative, nervous, canny, circumspect, guarded, watchful, timid, timorous, shy: Note the gingerly way he handles the nitroglycerine.
GLORIOUS|6|adj. 1 illustrious, famed, famous, renowned, celebrated, distinguished, honoured, eminent, excellent: England may be proud of her glorious literary heritage. 2 outstanding, splendid, magnificent, marvellous, wonderful, spectacular, fabulous, dazzling: They announced another glorious victory over enemy forces. 3 enjoyable, delightful, fine, great, excellent, pleasurable, superb, Colloq heavenly: We had a glorious holiday in the Greek islands. 4 beautiful, splendid, brilliant, gorgeous, resplendent, admirable, superior, excellent, estimable: The walls are covered with frescos in glorious colour.
GLOSSARY|10|n. gloss, (specialized or special-subject) dictionary, wordbook, word-list: There is a useful glossary of terms at the end of the book.
GLUTTONY|10|n. overeating, gormandizing, gormandism or gourmandism, greed, hoggishness, piggishness, rapacity, voraciousness, greediness, voracity, insatiability, edacity, crapulence, crapulousness, intemperance, immoderation, Archaic gulosity: The Bible categorizes gluttony among the seven deadly sins.
GORGEOUS|7|adj. 1 resplendent, splendid, magnificent, glorious, exquisite, sumptuous, dazzling, grand, beautiful, splendorous, breathtaking, radiant, refulgent, brilliant, showy, colourful, Colloq splendiferous: The males are known for their gorgeous plumage. 2 great, terrific, fantastic, wonderful, marvellous, glorious, spectacular, superb, excellent, Colloq fantabulous, marvy, smashing, super, nifty, neat, swell: He married a gorgeous fashion model.
GRACIOUS|4|adj. kind, courteous, polite, well-mannered, kindly, benevolent, beneficent, indulgent, kind-hearted, warm-hearted, cordial, warm, friendly, sociable, good-natured, amiable, affable, benign, accommodating, obliging, agreeable, considerate: It was gracious of you to grant me an audience.
GRADUATE|10|n. 1 bachelor, postgraduate, US alumnus (pl. alumni) or alumna (pl. alumnae): Even university graduates found it difficult to get a job. --v. 2 gradate, mark, calibrate, grade, scale: This thermometer is graduated in increments of one tenth of a degree.
GRANDEUR|10|n. 1 splendour, magnificence, majesty, sublimity, luxuriousness, pomp: The grandeur of the French court was never to be equalled. 2 nobility, augustness, nobleness, eminence, majesty: The emperor received us with a grandeur befitting his station.
GRANULAR|9|adj. grainy, granulated, particulate, comminuted, gravelly, sandy, gritty: The sauce was somewhat granular and tasted too strongly of nutmeg.
GRASPING|8|adj. greedy, avaricious, acquisitive, rapacious, mean, miserly, stingy, penurious, parsimonious, niggardly, tight, tight-fisted, penny-pinching, close-fisted, mercenary: If the company weren't so grasping, they'd have less difficulty hiring staff.
GREETING|4|n. 1 salutation, hail, hello, welcome, reception: She had a smile and a greeting for every passer-by. 2 greetings card, card, message, note: The Queen sent me a greeting on my 100th birthday. 3 greetings. regards, respects, best or good wishes, devoirs, compliments: I sent you greetings from Barbados, where I took my holiday.
GRIEVOUS|9|adj. 1 severe, heavy, painful, grave, serious, distressing, harmful; damaging, hurtful, acute, wounding: The church buildings suffered grievous damage from the storm. He was charged with causing grievous bodily harm. 2 egregious, awful, flagrant, terrible, outrageous, heinous, dreadful, atrocious, monstrous, appalling, shocking, deplorable, calamitous, lamentable, intolerable, shameful, unbearable: Missing that catch was a grievous error.
GRUESOME|11|adj. ghastly, repugnant, horrible, horrid, horrific, horrendous, grisly, hideous, revolting, repellent, repulsive, loathsome, grim, grotesque, macabre, abominable, frightful, frightening, fearsome, shocking, terrible, awful: She told a tale too gruesome to repeat here.
GUARDIAN|10|n. protector, defender, paladin, champion; trustee, custodian, keeper, preserver: She fancies him her guardian, her knight in shining armour. Do we really need guardians of the 'purity' of the language?
GUIDANCE|12|n. 1 leadership, direction, management, government, conduct, control, regulation, charge, handling, rule, auspices: The company prospered under her guidance. 2 counsel, advice, counselling, advisement, instruction, teaching: I have turned to you for guidance in the matter.
GULLIBLE|4|adj. innocent, green, simple, credulous, unsophisticated, naìve, unsuspecting, unwary, unsuspicious, wide-eyed, born yesterday, inexperienced, immature: He was gullible enough to fall for the old con game, three-card monte.
GUMPTION|13|n. 1 resourcefulness, shrewdness, cleverness, (mother) wit, (common) sense, astuteness, judgement, Colloq horse sense, brains, Slang Brit nous: It takes a lot of gumption to run a good cattle auction. 2 backbone, grit, pluck, mettle, enterprise, initiative, courage, spirit, gameness, nerve, daring, vigour, energy, boldness, audacity, stamina, Colloq spunk, guts, get-up-and-go, US moxie, Slang Brit bottle, Taboo slang balls: He hasn't the gumption to go into business for himself.
HABITUAL|13|adj. 1 settled, fixed, customary, usual, conventional, accustomed, set, rooted, established, traditional, standard, routine, ritual, regular, normal, wonted, common, ordinary, natural: He follows his habitual practice of rising at dawn. 2 inveterate, established, chronic, confirmed, hardened, ingrained, frequent, persistent, constant, continual, perpetual: Many English people are habitual tea-drinkers.
HAIRLESS|9|adj. bald, bald-headed, bald-pated, glabrous, calvous: She finds hairless men rather sexy.
HALLMARK|15|n. 1 authentication, verification, seal or stamp (of authenticity or approval), mark, device, sign, symbol; plate-mark; assay-mark: From this hallmark we know when and where the piece was made, by whom, and its degree of purity. Surprise endings are the hallmark of O. Henry's short stories. 2 feature, stamp, mark, earmark, trade mark, characteristic, identification: From his hallmark, a tiny axe, you can tell that the painting is a genuine Fellworthy.
HANDICAP|16|n. 1 hindrance, restraint, encumbrance, restriction, limitation, impediment, barrier, bar, obstacle, (stumbling) block, constraint, check, curb, trammel, disability, disadvantage: Did Douglas Bader view the loss of his legs as a handicap? --v. 2 hinder, hamper, restrain, encumber, restrict, limit, impede, bar, block, check, curb, trammel, disable, disadvantage: He was severely handicapped by the loss of his sword.
HANDSOME|14|adj. 1 good-looking, fine-looking, attractive, fair, comely: He's handsome enough to be a movie star. 2 generous, sizeable, large, big, substantial, considerable, good, goodly, ample, abundant: She has made a handsome profit on the painting.
HANGERON|12|n. follower, dependant, leech, parasite, toady, sycophant, yes-man, Colloq scrounger, US freeloader, Slang groupie, sponger or sponge: The rock star came in, surrounded by his hangers-on.
HARANGUE|12|n. 1 diatribe, tirade, oration, peroration, declamation, philippic, screed, exhortation, vituperation, rodomontade, speech, address, Colloq spiel: This morning he delivered a ten-minute harangue on the weakness of the coffee. --v. 2 declaim, hold forth, preach, lecture, sermonize, pontificate, vituperate, rant and rave: Our neighbour is always haranguing her husband about trimming the hedges.
HARDSHIP|12|n. want, privation, deprivation, suffering, misery, distress, affliction, adversity, austerity, misfortune, unhappiness, ill fortune, bad luck, difficulty, trouble: The hardship of frontier life has never been fully described.
HARDWARE|15|n. 1 tools, metal goods, Brit ironmongery: Go down to the hardware shop for some nails. 2 (computer) equipment, components, devices, machinery; arms, munitions, armament(s), mat÷riel: We need the personnel to operate the hardware.
HARMLESS|11|adj. benign, innocuous, inoffensive, gentle, mild, innocent, safe; non-toxic, non-poisonous, non-venomous: Pay no attention to such harmless gossip. It is impossible to identify harmless snakes by sight.
HEADACHE|10|n. 1 migraine, Technical cephalalgia: Hazel says she has a headache and cannot come to work today. 2 worry, bother, vexation, inconvenience, nuisance, annoyance, problem, difficulty, trouble, bane, Colloq pain (in the neck), Slang pain in the Brit arse or US ass: The balance of payments deficit is a perpetual headache.
HEAVENLY|17|adj. 1 divine, angelic, seraphic, celestial, holy, immortal, blessed, beatific, beatified, spiritual, saintly; supernal, unearthly, other-worldly, ultramundane, extramundane, extraterrestrial: Alone on the mountain, she heard a heavenly voice calling her name. 2 delightful, wonderful, marvellous, sublime, paradisiac(al) or paradisaic(al), glorious, splendid, superb, exquisite, perfect, ideal, excellent, fantastic, rapturous, entrancing, blissful, Colloq gorgeous, divine, smashing, great: Andr÷'s serves a perfectly heavenly lobster thermidor.
HEEDLESS|8|adj. inattentive, uncaring, unmindful, neglectful, unobservant, regardless; oblivious, deaf, blind: Heedless of tradition, they replaced the older buildings with council housing.
HEIGHTEN|8|v. 1 raise, elevate, build up, increase, lift (up), upraise: A white ceiling gives the effect of heightening a room. 2 intensify, deepen, strengthen, reinforce, amplify, magnify, increase, enhance, augment, add to, supplement: Adding some blue heightens the effect. The bribery scandal has only heightened distrust of the ruling party.
HELPLESS|11|adj. 1 dependent, vulnerable, weak, helpless, feeble, infirm, lame, crippled, disabled: The disease has left him completely helpless. 2 confused, baffled, mystified, bewildered, perplexed, at sea, confounded, muddled, nonplussed: I am completely helpless when it comes to balancing my accounts. 3 weakened, weak, debilitated, faint, enfeebled, feeble, worn out, spent, exhausted, prostrate, enervated: All of us were simply helpless from laughing so much. 4 worthless, incapable, incompetent, useless, unavailing, inefficient, inept, unfit, unqualified: Dali was said to be helpless without Gala to manage his affairs.
HENCHMAN|11|n. (fellow-) mobster or gangster or hoodlum, gangster, bodyguard, myrmidon, right-hand man, associate, attendant, follower, supporter, confidant, crony, Colloq sidekick, hooligan, Brit minder, US buddy, cohort; Slang heavy, US torpedo, gunsel, goon: Mr Big strutted in with his henchmen and wrecked the place.
HERMETIC|15|adj. hermetical, airtight, sealed; impervious: If the hermetic seal is broken, sterility is not guaranteed.
HESITANT|11|adj. 1 hesitating, undecided, uncertain, unsettled, irresolute, vacillating, shilly-shallying, dithering, fluctuating, wavering, unresolved, ambivalent, in or of two minds, indefinite, Brit havering: He was hesitant about whether to buy the blue or the green model. 2 halting, stammering, stuttering, faltering: From her hesitant speech I'd say she was nervous.
HESITATE|11|v. 1 delay, hold or hang back, pause, dilly-dally, wait, temporize, think twice, balk, boggle at, shrink from, demur, scruple, Brit haver, jib, Colloq stall: He who hesitates is lost. 2 fumble, equivocate, tergiversate, fluctuate, alternate, waver, dither, vacillate, shilly-shally: He hesitated between the doors - did this one conceal the lady or the tiger? 3 stammer, stutter, falter, sputter, splutter, stumble, hem and haw: She hesitated throughout the speech purely from stage fright.
HIDEAWAY|18|n. refuge, retreat, sanctuary, hide-out, hiding-place, lair, (safe) haven, Colloq hole, Brit hidey-hole or hidy-hole: My brother and I would crawl into our hideaway and pretend we were being held prisoner by pirates.
HIGHBROW|13|n. 1 scholar, intellectual, savant, sage, mastermind, genius; aesthete, connoisseur, Colloq egghead, brain: Many who pretend to deride highbrows secretly envy them. --adj. 2 scholarly, intellectual, learned, erudite, deep, bookish, cultured, sophisticated, cultivated, aesthetic, Colloq brainy: Books on philosophy are too highbrow for the market we cater to.
HILARITY|14|n. laughter, gaiety, joviality, jollity, merriment, mirth, exuberance, glee, boisterousness, cheerfulness, joyfulness, jubilation, elation, revelry, conviviality, high spirits, vivacity, exhilaration: Thurgood did not join in the hilarity of his retirement party.
HISTORIC|13|adj. momentous, important, noteworthy, significant, red-letter, notable, celebrated, distinguished, prominent, great, consequential, signal, unforgettable, memorable: We are gathered here to commemorate a historic event.
HOMELESS|11|adj. 1 dispossessed, outcast, exiled, vagabond, derelict, unsettled; unhoused: Their houses destroyed in the war, homeless people wandered everywhere. --n. 2 the homeless. knights of the road, vagrants, vagabonds, tramps, US bums, hoboes: There are not enough shelters for the homeless.
HOMESICK|11|adj. nostalgic, longing, pining, lonely, lonesome; wistful, reminiscent: I was homesick for the smell and taste of a good haggis.
HOMESPUN|15|adj. rustic, plain, simple, unrefined, unpolished, unsophisticated, down-to-earth, coarse, rough, rude, crude, inelegant, amateur, amateurish, non-professional, unprofessional; handmade: The furniture is not of museum quality, but it has a homespun quality.
HONESTLY|14|adv. 1 truthfully, honourably, creditably, decently, ethically, morally, uprightly, dependably, reliably, in good faith, justly, fairly, equitably, even-handedly, disinterestedly, objectively, impartially: In general, the police deal honestly with suspects. 2 candidly, frankly, openly, straightforwardly, forthrightly, sincerely, truly, ingenuously, unreservedly, above-board, unambiguously, unequivocally, plainly, simply, straight (out), to one's face, in plain words or English, bluntly: I tell you honestly that I have never heard of the man.
HONORARY|14|adj. nominal, titular, in name or title only, ex officio: She has several honorary doctoral degrees, which is not bad for someone who never went to university.
HOODWINK|17|v. fool, trick, deceive, delude, dupe, gull, hoax, defraud, mislead, humbug, outwit, Colloq bamboozle, pull the wool over (someone's) eyes, pull a fast one on, lead (someone) up or down the garden path, put one over on (someone), throw dust in (someone's) eyes, take (someone) for a ride, string (someone) along, Slang rook, con, suck in, US sucker in, snow: They are trying to hoodwink the voters into believing that the recession is over.
HOPELESS|11|adj. 1 desperate, beyond hope or saving, irreparable, beyond repair, irremediable, lost, gone, irretrievable; incurable, terminal, deadly, fatal, lethal: As their ship drifted into the intergalactic void, they saw that their situation was hopeless. They told me that her condition was hopeless. 2 bad, poor, incompetent, inferior, inadequate, inept, unqualified, unfit, unskilful, deficient: You might make a good surgeon, but as a judge of human nature you're hopeless. 3 despairing, despondent, forlorn, woebegone, disconsolate, inconsolable, depressed, dejected, melancholy, downcast, gloomy, miserable, discouraged, wretched, lugubrious, funereal, sorrowful, sad, unhappy: Utterly hopeless after his script was rejected by Hollywood, he moped in his room. 4 futile, vain, bootless, unavailing, impossible, impracticable, unworkable, pointless, worthless, useless: It would be hopeless to try to send out a lifeboat in this storm.
HORRIBLE|6|adj. 1 awful, horrendous, horrid, horrifying, horrific, terrible, terrifying, dreadful, abominable, abhorrent, appalling, frightening, frightful, ghastly, grim, grisly, ghoulish, gruesome, loathsome, hideous, repulsive, revolting, disgusting, sickening, nauseating, nauseous, harrowing, blood-curdling, macabre, unspeakable, shocking: The horrible sight of her father's mangled body haunted her for the rest of her days. 2 awful, nasty, unpleasant, disagreeable, horrid, terrible, dreadful, obnoxious, offensive, atrocious, monstrous, contemptible, detestable, despicable, Colloq Brit beastly: The food was perfectly horrible at our hotel. Take that horrible little dog away.
HOSPITAL|13|n. medical centre, health centre, infirmary, clinic, polyclinic, dispensary, sickbay; asylum, sanatorium, nursing home, convalescent home or facility, US sanitarium: With that wound, you ought to be in a hospital.
HOTHOUSE|6|n. 1 hotbed, greenhouse, glasshouse, conservatory: These tomatoes were grown during the winter in our hothouse. --adj. 2 dainty, delicate, sensitive, fragile, frail, pampered, overprotected, sheltered, shielded, spoiled, coddled, babied: She was glad to exchange the hothouse atmosphere of the university for the real world.
HUMANITY|16|n. 1 human race, people, society, humankind, Homo sapiens; the public, the masses, community; Possibly offensive man, mankind: From what we are told, humanity took millions of years to evolve. 2 humanness, human nature, mortality: On his first voyage to Mars, Kollworth began to doubt his own humanity. 3 kindness, kindliness, kind-heartedness, consideration, helpfulness, charitableness, open-heartedness, warm-heartedness, good will, benevolence, compassion, mercifulness, mercy, benignity, tenderness, warmth, gentleness, leniency or lenience or lenity, beneficence, generosity, unselfishness, magnanimity, understanding, sympathy, sensitivity: It was owing to the humanity of our neighbours that we survived the bombing.
HUMILITY|16|n. modesty, meekness, self-effacement, shyness, diffidence, timidity, timorousness, meekness, bashfulness, mildness, unpretentiousness, submissiveness, servility, self-abasement, lowliness: She sees humility as dissatisfaction with oneself on account of some defect or infirmity.
HUMOROUS|10|adj. funny, comical, facetious, laughable, risible, ludicrous, farcical, side-splitting, hilarious, merry; droll, whimsical, amusing, witty, waggish, jocular, jocose, playful, pleasant, Colloq hysterical: The humorous parts of the play sent the audience into gales of laughter.
HYGIENIC|17|adj. clean, sanitary, sterile, disinfected, germ-free, aseptic, pure: It is essential that hygienic surroundings be maintained in hospitals.
IDEALIZE|18|v. exalt, elevate, glorify, worship, ennoble, deify, apotheosize, put on a pedestal, romanticize: Because she idealizes him, she cannot see his true nature.
IDENTIFY|15|v. 1 classify, categorize, catalogue, pigeon-hole, sort (out), specify, pinpoint, home (in) on, name, label, tag, recognize, place, mark, label, tag, pinpoint, single out, point out, Colloq put one's finger on: We are unable to identify the butterfly you caught. 2 connect, associate, relate, ally: She is closely identified with the success of the enterprise. 3 diagnose, specify, name, recognize: From the symptoms, the doctor identified the disease as bubonic plague. 4 Usually, identify with. empathize (with), sympathize (with), relate (to), Colloq dig: His problem is that he identifies too closely with his dog.
IDENTITY|12|n. 1 sameness, oneness, unanimity, indistinguishability, agreement, accord, congruence: Identity of purpose held them together under stress. 2 personality, individuality, distinctiveness, uniqueness, particularity, singularity: Many who join the army lose their identity.
IDEOLOGY|13|n. belief(s), convictions, tenets, credo, philosophy, principles, creed, dogma, teachings, doctrine: Buddhism had a great influence on his ideology.
IDLENESS|7|n. 1 inactivity, inaction, lethargy, torpor, indolence, laziness, sluggishness, sloth, slothfulness, shiftlessness, inertia, lassitude, torpor, flçnerie, dolce far niente; unemployment, Colloq US lallygagging or lollygagging, Military slang US gold-bricking: The strike created enforced idleness for non-union workers as well. 2 shirking, malingering, dawdling, loafing, time-wasting, lazing, Colloq dilly-dallying, shilly-shallying, Brit skiving: The foreman warned that he would not tolerate idleness.
IGNORANT|9|adj. 1 unknowing, uninformed, untaught, uneducated, unschooled, unread, unlearned, unlettered, illiterate: Is there anyone so ignorant as not to know who the Duke of Wellington was? 2 unaware, unfamiliar, unconscious, benighted, unenlightened, unwitting, in the dark, oblivious, Formal nescient: She knows many things about which we are ignorant. 3 inexperienced, green, naìve, innocent, unsophisticated: They used to tease ignorant young apprentices by sending them to find a left-handed hammer. 4 uncouth, ill-mannered, discourteous, impolite, uncivil, boorish: Don't be so ignorant and open the door for the lady!
ILLTREAT|6|v. mistreat, maltreat, abuse, misuse, harm, hurt, injure, persecute, mishandle: He is at last being punished for those years he ill-treated his wife.
ILLUSION|6|n. 1 deception, delusion, fancy, misconception, misapprehension, fallacy, error, mistake, mistaken or false impression: He is labouring under the illusion that he is a great pianist. 2 fantasy, day-dream, hallucination, phantasm, phantom, chimera, phantasmagoria, mirage, aberration, vision, spectre, figment of the imagination, will-o'-the-wisp, ignis fatuus: For years after he died, she had the illusion of seeing her father everywhere.
ILLUSORY|9|adj. illusive, imaginary, fictional, unreal, untrue, fallacious, false, mistaken, imagined, fanciful, fancied, hallucinatory, deceptive, misleading, apparent,: Any financial gains that you perceive in the scheme are purely illusory.
IMMATURE|6|adj. 1 premature, undeveloped, unripe, rudimentary, half-grown, unformed, unfledged, fledgling, unfinished, young, new, fresh, incomplete: The immature growth in the spring is not hardy enough to survive a frost. 2 green, callow, unsophisticated, naìve, jejune, inexperienced, babyish, childish, childlike, puerile, juvenile, raw, Colloq wet behind the ears: She is a bit immature to assume so many responsibilities.
IMMINENT|6|adj. impending, looming, threatening, menacing, at hand, nigh, immediate, close (by or at hand), (forth)coming, drawing near or close or nigh, momentary: We face imminent disaster if steps are not taken now.
IMMODEST|7|adj. 1 indecent, shameless, shameful, indecorous, titillating, revealing; indelicate, improper, wanton, loose, unrestrained, provocative, obscene, lewd, smutty, dirty, lascivious, bawdy, coarse, Colloq sexy: The striptease was, to say the least, immodest. The streakers will be punished for their immodest behaviour. 2 brazen, forward, bold, impudent, impertinent, brash, arrogant, insolent, presumptuous, disrespectful, Colloq fresh, cheeky: Carl's immodest demand for a private office was ignored.
IMMORTAL|6|adj. 1 undying, eternal, deathless, everlasting, eternal, imperishable, sempiternal, never-ending, endless, ceaseless, perpetual, timeless, constant, permanent, indestructible: Did the Egyptian pharaohs believe themselves immortal? 2 divine, heavenly, godlike: The immortal wisdom of God guides man. 3 remembered, celebrated, unfading, famous, renowned, classic, lauded, praised, honoured, timeless: The immortal writings of Shakespeare inspire us still. --n. 4 Olympian, god or goddess; hero or heroine, legend, genius, great: To be sure, we must consider Bach as one of the immortals.
IMMUNITY|9|n. 1 exemption, non-liability, invulnerability, protection, excuse, release, exclusion, privilege, freedom, indemnity, amnesty, exoneration, absolution: In return for his testimony he was granted immunity from prosecution. 2 insusceptibility or unsusceptibility, protection, inoculation, vaccination: Immunity to a number of diseases is conferred by this one injection.
IMPERIAL|12|adj. 1 kingly, kinglike, queenly, queenlike, princely, princelike, regal, royal, sovereign: The imperial court was rich and splendid. 2 majestic, royal, regal, lofty, exalted, supreme, august, noble, superior, imposing, splendid, magnificent, grand, excellent: Her imperial presence outshone all at the ball.
IMPLICIT|10|adj. 1 implied, indirect, inferable, understood, unspoken, undeclared, tacit, inherent, inferential, latent: Certain provisions are implicit in every legal contract and need not be expressed. 2 absolute, unquestioning, unquestioned, unqualified, total, sheer, complete, unmitigated, unalloyed, undiluted, unlimited, unconditional, unreserved, utter, full, wholehearted: I have implicit faith in Nicole's judgement.
IMPOLITE|12|adj. discourteous, ill-mannered, uncivil, rude, ungracious, ungentlemanly, unladylike, pert, disrespectful, saucy, boorish, churlish, crude, indecorous, indelicate, unrefined, ill-bred, vulgar, coarse: The waiter was so impolite that I refused him a tip.
IMPOSING|9|adj. grand, magnificent, impressive, stately, august, majestic, effective, commanding: In his dress uniform, the general was an imposing presence at the reception.
IMPOSTOR|12|n. imposter, impersonator, pretender, deceiver, cheat, fraud, swindler, trickster, confidence man, shark, charlatan, mountebank, hypocrite, Colloq con man, phoney or US also phony, tricky Dick, flimflam man, US four-flusher: It wasn't the bank manager but an impostor.
IMPOTENT|12|adj. 1 weak, powerless, helpless, frail, feeble, enervated, debilitated, infirm: When it came to political influence, I was impotent. 2 inadequate, ineffective, ineffectual, inept, incompetent: The attempted robbery was a half-hearted, impotent effort. 3 sterile, barren, infertile, infecund: They never had any children because Dixon was impotent.
IMPRISON|12|v. incarcerate, confine, detain, remand, jail or Brit also gaol, lock up, intern, shut up, put behind bars, put in or throw into irons, put away, Colloq Brit send down, US send up (the river): He was imprisoned for a crime he didn't commit.
IMPROPER|14|adj. 1 wrong, mistaken, erroneous, false, incorrect, inaccurate, inexact, imprecise, amiss, faulty, untrue, irregular, abnormal: Sloppy research had led to improper conclusions. 2 unfit, unsuitable, inappropriate, inapt, inapplicable, infelicitous, incongruous, unsuited, unseemly, unbefitting, unfitting, uncalled-for, inapposite, malapropos, out of keeping, out of place, incompatible, inopportune: Do you think it improper for shops to open on Sundays? His wedding was an improper occasion for comments about his philandering. 3 indecorous, indecent, indelicate, immodest, unseemly, untoward, unbecoming, impolite, suggestive, risqu÷, off colour, obscene, corrupt, immoral, sinful, wicked, lewd, lascivious: Do you see anything improper in sex education for children?
IMPUDENT|13|adj. shameless, impertinent, insolent, disrespectful, forward, presumptuous, audacious, pert, saucy, bold, brazen, cocky, cocksure, arrogant, uncivil, ill-mannered, rude, impolite, Colloq fresh, brassy, cheeky: Asked the simplest question, she is always ready with an impudent response.
IMPURITY|15|n. 1 pollution, contamination, defilement, adulteration, dirtiness, uncleanness, foulness: The impurity of the water in our rivers is a cause for concern. 2 Often, impurities. dirt, contaminant, pollutant, pollution, smut, filth, foreign matter or body: This filter is guaranteed to remove impurities from the water. 3 unchastity, immorality, sinfulness, wickedness, evil, vileness, corruption, degeneration, depravity, looseness, wantonness, lust, lustfulness, promiscuity, promiscuousness, libidinousness, dissoluteness, licentiousness, obscenity, prurience, dirtiness, filthiness, lubricity, salaciousness, lasciviousness, lewdness, lecherousness: Children ought not be exposed to the impurity encountered on everyday television.
INACTIVE|13|adj. 1 passive, placid, quiet, tranquil, quiescent, serene, peaceful, pacific, resting, unmoving, motionless, immobile, immobilized, still, inert, lifeless, inanimate, sluggish, listless, lethargic, lackadaisical, languid, indolent, lazy, torpid, somnolent, idle, slothful, supine: Although there was plenty to do round the house, he remained inactive all summer. 2 non-functioning, inoperative, dormant; unoccupied, idle, unemployed, jobless, out of work, out of a job: The volcano was inactive for a thousand years. These miners have been inactive for six months.
INCIDENT|7|n. 1 event, occasion, occurrence, proceeding, circumstance, fact, happening, experience, episode: A curious incident led to the discovery. 2 disturbance, scene, affair, upset, commotion, fracas, skirmish, set-to, Colloq to-do, do: The police were called because of an incident at the pub next door.
INCISION|6|n. cut, gash, slit, slash: The surgeon made an incision in the abdominal wall.
INCISIVE|9|adj. 1 keen, sharp, acute, piercing, perspicacious, perceptive, percipient, penetrating, trenchant, canny, shrewd: Shirley offered some incisive observations on the matter. 2 sarcastic, biting, mordant, cutting, caustic, sardonic, ironic(al), sharp, acid, tart, acrid, acrimonious, bitter, acerbic, cynical, stinging, critical: Your incisive comments are not really appreciated, George.
INCLINED|11|adj. 1 tending, disposed, predisposed, prone, willing, keen, eager, Colloq of a mind: Though she is inclined to believe she has doubts. 2 likely, apt, liable, minded, prone: He is equally inclined to kiss you as kill you. 3 sloping, slanting, leaning, bending, tilting, gravitating, bearing, verging: This wall is slightly inclined towards the river.
INCOMING|9|adj. 1 arriving, entering: Incoming passengers must pass through customs. 2 new, entering: They are trying to predict the likely policies of the incoming government.
INCUBATE|12|v. hatch, brood; nurse, nurture, develop: How long have you been incubating this plan?
INDEBTED|12|adj. obligated, owing, obliged, beholden, bound, liable, responsible: I am indebted to the Salvation Army for their help.
INDECENT|11|adj. 1 indecorous, indelicate, immodest, improper, unbecoming, unsuitable, unfit, inappropriate; in bad taste: When he proposed marriage she accepted with indecent haste. 2 unseemly, shameless, shameful, offensive, outrageous, repellent, repulsive, distasteful, ill-mannered, rude, suggestive, coarse, risqu÷, vulgar, blue, obscene, gross, rank, prurient, dirty, foul, filthy, pornographic, ithyphallic, scatological, salacious, lascivious, licentious, lewd, lubricious or lubricous, smutty, vile, degenerate, debauched: There are always a lot of complaints about indecent language on television.
INDICATE|11|v. 1 point out, point to, mark, specify, designate, indicate; call or direct attention to, show: The thermometer indicated that the temperature was 22ÛC. Sally indicated the place where the dam would be built. 2 imply, suggest, betoken, manifest, signify, bespeak, reveal, evince, evidence, denote: Measles is indicated by the presence of Koplik's spots. 3 suggest, hint, imply, intimate; say, express, state, disclose, tell, make known, make clear, register, show, display, exhibit: His frown indicated his doubts. She indicated her displeasure in a few, well-chosen words. 4 call for, require, demand, need, recommend: The doctor advised that a surgical procedure is indicated in such cases.
INDIGENT|10|adj. needy, poor, destitute, poverty-stricken, in want, penniless, impoverished, penurious, impecunious, necessitous, Colloq (dead or flat) broke, stony-broke, hard up, short, on one's uppers, Brit skint, US strapped: The two brothers made certain that their indigent parents were well looked after.
INDIRECT|11|adj. 1 roundabout, circuitous, circumambient, devious, tortuous, zigzag, winding, rambling, roving, wandering, erratic, meandering, ambagious, crooked, oblique, twisted, twisting; circumlocutory, periphrastic: In an indirect way she told me that I was fired. 2 secondary, incidental, ancillary, collateral, accidental, side, subordinate, subsidiary, accessory, additional, accidental, adscititious, adventitious: An indirect effect of winning the prize was an offer of more work.
INDOLENT|9|adj. lazy, slothful, sluggish, idle, lethargic, shiftless, languorous, languid, torpid, inert, inactive, stagnant, fain÷ant, listless: 'Peel me a grape', she said in her most indolent manner.
INDUSTRY|12|n. 1 production, manufacture, trade, commerce, business: Competition in the car industry helps keep prices lower. 2 diligence, assiduity, sedulousness, energy, exertion, effort, application, perseverance, persistence, work, labour, toil: We were complimented on our industry by the teacher. 3 industriousness, energy, activity, vigour, hustle, bustle, dynamism, enterprise, earnestness, determination: The sales office is a hive of industry.
INFAMOUS|10|adj. 1 notorious, disreputable, ill-famed, stigmatized, scandalous, discreditable, dishonourable, ignominious: So this is the infamous house where the murders took place! 2 bad, awful, wicked, evil, iniquitous, villainous, heinous, vile, abominable, outrageous, execrable, abhorrent, opprobrious, despicable, loathsome, detestable, odious, foul, scurvy, rotten, atrocious, flagitious, revolting, monstrous, egregious, base, low, shameful, disgraceful: A number of infamous criminals are portrayed in the Chamber of Horrors.
INFERIOR|11|adj. 1 lower, nether: We descended into the inferior regions of the cavern. The numeral in H2O is called an inferior character. 2 lesser, lower, subordinate, secondary, junior, minor, unimportant, insignificant, lowly, subservient, humble, servile: He occupies an inferior position in the company. 3 poor, bad, low-quality, mediocre, indifferent, imperfect, defective, second-rate, second-class, substandard, low-grade, shoddy, gimcrack, Colloq grotty, junky, crummy or crumby, lousy, Slang crappy, Brit naff: They tried to market an inferior product, but it was rejected by consumers. --n. 4 subordinate, underling, junior, menial, lackey, flunkey, dogsbody, cat's-paw, doormat, stooge, yes-man, lickspittle, bootlicker: She is tired of being treated as an inferior.
INFINITE|11|adj. 1 boundless, vast, limitless, unlimited, illimitable, endless, interminable, indeterminable, indeterminate, inestimable, astronomical, numberless, multitudinous, uncountable, uncounted, innumerable, incalculable, inexhaustible, immense, enormous, immeasurable, measureless, bottomless, unfathomable: They hurtled through infinite space at the speed of light. We do what we can, but our resources are not infinite. In his infinite wisdom, God made the garden slug. 2 eternal, everlasting, perpetual, endless, unending, inexhaustible, undying, never-ending: It is difficult to conceive of time as being anything but infinite, without beginning or end. With infinite patience she reassembled the pieces of the vase.
INFLAMED|14|adj. irritated, sore, angry, chafing, chafed, red, swollen, heated, hot, fevered, feverish, infected, septic: The wound became inflamed and we had no medicine to reduce the infection.
INFORMAL|13|adj. 1 unceremonious, casual, natural, unstilted, familiar, ordinary, everyday, unaffected, unassuming, unpretentious, simple, relaxed, free, free and easy, Brit common or garden, US garden-variety: We had an informal dinner in the kitchen. 2 unofficial, unconventional, unconstrained, casual, everyday, simple: On duty he wore informal clothes - blue jeans and a denim jacket. 3 vernacular, colloquial, simple, unaffected, ordinary, unpretentious, everyday: He uses informal language devoid of scientific jargon.
INFORMED|14|adj. 1 intelligent, knowledgeable, enlightened, educated, learned, cultured, cultivated: An informed public is democracy's greatest asset. 2 alert (to), aware (of), advised, in touch, au fait, briefed, conversant (with), (well-)versed, up (on), up to date, Colloq in the know, wise: Keep me informed as to your whereabouts.
INFORMER|13|n. traitor, betrayer, tattle-tale, taleteller, informant, Slang stool-pigeon, snitch, squealer, weasel, Brit grass, Chiefly US rat, US stoolie, canary, shoo-fly: According to the informer, the secret meeting is scheduled for tonight.
INFRINGE|8|v. 1 violate, contravene, break, disobey, transgress, overstep: Publication of this article has infringed her right to a fair trial. 2 infringe on or upon. intrude on, impinge on, trespass on, encroach on, invade: Never let pleasure infringe on the domain of duty.
INHERENT|11|adj. intrinsic, indwelling, essential, basic, innate, connate, ingrained or engrained, native, congenital, inherited, hereditary, inborn, inbred, indigenous, immanent, built-in: It is difficult to tell which characteristics are derived and which are inherent.
INITIATE|8|v. 1 begin, commence, enter upon or on, originate, introduce, set in motion, start, give rise to, get under way, launch, get or set going, trigger, set off, actuate, activate, instigate, institute, inaugurate: The programme was initiated last spring with much fanfare. 2 admit, accept, introduce: The new members were initiated last night, with due ceremony. 3 teach, instruct, train, tutor, drill, coach: His responsibility is to initiate recruits in the rudiments of jungle warfare. --n. 4 novice, beginner, new boy or girl, greenhorn, rookie, neophyte, tiro or tyro, newcomer, tenderfoot, fledgling, apprentice, (raw) recruit, abecedarian, noviciate or novitiate, catechumen, Brit fresher or US only freshman, Australian new chum: In the first weeks, initiates are drilled in the basics.
INNOCENT|8|adj. 1 not guilty, guiltless, blameless, honest, (in the) clear, unimpeachable, above suspicion, above reproach, faultless: We all believe her innocent of extortion. 2 pure, sinless, virtuous, chaste, virgin(al), undefiled, untainted, unstained, unsullied, pristine, incorrupt, uncorrupted, immaculate, spotless, unblemished, unpolluted: She is still a sweet child, innocent as the day she was born. 3 harmless, well-intentioned, safe, innocuous, inoffensive, unobjectionable: What began as an innocent stroll became a dangerous expedition. 4 naìve, unsuspecting, unsuspicious, unsuspecting, ingenuous, unsophisticated, trusting, trustful, gullible, credulous, green, inexperienced, childlike, unworldly, guileless, artless, simple, open, unartificial, sincere: Youngsters would arrive in London directly from the farm, entirely innocent and unaware of the perils of city life. --n. 5 infant, babe (in arms or in the wood(s)), child; ing÷nue, novice, beginner, newcomer, Colloq greenhorn: She's certainly no innocent when it comes to men.
INNUENDO|7|n. insinuation, imputation, suggestion, hint, intimation, implication, allusion, overtone; reference, animadversion: I resent your innuendo that I know more about the affair than I am letting on.
INSANITY|11|n. 1 madness, lunacy, mental illness or disorder, dementia (praecox), psychosis, schizophrenia, (mental) derangement, mania; psychoneurosis, neurosis: Because of the plea of temporary insanity he never stood trial for the murders. 2 folly, foolishness, stupidity, idiocy, imbecility, lunacy, absurdity, fatuity, fatuousness, nonsense, senselessness, irresponsibility, irrationality, inanity: What insanity it was to think I could win the lottery!
INSECURE|10|adj. 1 uncertain, afraid, unsure, unconfident, nervous, worried, anxious, disconcerted, apprehensive, uncomfortable, shaky, jumpy, unnerved, fearful: Harry is beginning to feel insecure about his job. 2 unsafe, dangerous, unprotected, vulnerable, unguarded, defenceless, undefended, exposed, open: The machine-gun position is insecure and will soon be taken. 3 unstable, shaky, wobbly, precarious, infirm, weak, flimsy, frail, rickety, unsubstantial, rocky, unsound, unsteady, unreliable, uncertain: The structure collapsed because the footings were insecure.
INSOLENT|8|adj. impertinent, impudent, pert, saucy, bold, presumptuous, brazen, brash, disrespectful, insulting, contemptuous, offensive, rude, crude, uncivil, insubordinate, Colloq fresh, brassy, cheeky, Slang Brit smart-arsed or US smart-ass(ed), US wise: That insolent boor had the gall to call her 'Queenie'!
INSTANCE|10|n. 1 case (in point), example, exemplar, illustration, precedent, exemplification, occurrence, event: The damage to the bus shelter is yet one more instance of hooliganism. 2 for instance. for example, as an example, say, e.g.; in the event, as it happens or happened: Consider her, for instance: she managed to work and raise a family.
INSTINCT|10|n. intuition, feel, feeling, empathy, sensitivity, tendency, propensity, leaning, bent, skill, talent, faculty, sixth sense, knack, predisposition, capacity, aptitude; subconscious: She has an uncanny instinct for finding the most interesting person in a crowd.
INSTRUCT|10|v. 1 teach, train, tutor, drill, educate, coach, inform, guide, edify, prepare, indoctrinate, inculcate: My parents employed a tutor to instruct me in Latin. 2 direct, order, bid, require, tell, enjoin, command, importune, charge: We were instructed to tell no one where we were going.
INSULATE|8|v. 1 detach, separate, isolate, segregate, shelter, preserve, set or keep apart, sequester, sequestrate, quarantine: The rock star's aides did their best to insulate her from her screaming fans. 2 lag, protect, shield, cushion, wrap, cover: Insulate the pipes to prevent heat loss. Insulate the wire with this tape. Nitroglycerine must be insulated from shock.
INTENTLY|11|adv. closely, attentively, concentratedly, earnestly, fixedly, unflinchingly, determinedly, searchingly, steadily, steadfastly, continuously, assiduously, doggedly, unremittingly, eagerly, keenly, studiously: They regarded one another intently across the table.
INTERIOR|8|adj. 1 inside, internal, inner, inward: The interior surfaces are to be painted white. 2 internal, domestic, civil, national, local, home: We will not accept the interference of foreign governments in our interior affairs. 3 inner, private, intimate, personal, individual, secret, hidden, veiled: Some of Hamlet's great speeches are in the form of interior monologues, or soliloquies. 4 upland, inland, up-country, land-locked: The most beautiful scenery is in the interior part of the country, away from the marshy coast. --n. 5 inside: The interior is coated with Teflon. 6 heart, centre, middle, core, depths: This is the story of a journey to the interior of the earth. 7 uplands, up-country, heartland, hinterland: The interior is covered with rocks and scrub pine.
INTIMATE|10|adj. 1 close, personal, warm, affectionate, loving, dear, bosom, cherished, familiar, intime: She had a party for intimate friends. 2 secret, confidential, private, personal, privy, hidden, intime; detailed, penetrating, deep, profound, thorough, exhaustive: In his autobiography he reveals intimate particulars of his marriage. 3 sexual; carnal: It is well known that Millie was on intimate terms with her chauffeur. 4 cosy, informal, snug, friendly, warm, comfortable; intime, å deux, téte-å-téte, Colloq comfy: The two of us had an intimate dinner at home last night. --n. 5 friend, associate, comrade, crony, familiar, confidant(e), (constant) companion, Achates, alter ego, colleague, confrëre, Colloq sidekick, chum, pal, Brit and Australian mate, US buddy, Slang Brit china (plate), mucker: He and a few of his intimates like to get together now and then for a game of snooker.
INTRIGUE|9|v. 1 fascinate, beguile, captivate, attract, absorb, charm, pique, interest, titillate, arouse or excite the curiosity (of): It intrigues me to watch them put those ships into bottles. 2 conspire, plot, connive, scheme, manoeuvre: She was sure that everyone was intriguing against her. --n. 3 conspiracy, plot, scheme, manoeuvre, collusion, stratagem, trickery, chicanery, double-dealing, guile, subterfuge, artifice, machination, deception: Many of those close to the government are engaged in intrigue of some kind. 4 affair, liaison, amour, romance, intimacy; adultery: We all knew about the intrigue he was carrying on with the duke's wife.
INTRUDER|9|n. 1 interloper, gatecrasher, uninvited guest, unwelcome visitor; trespasser, encroacher, invader, infiltrator, squatter; burglar, thief: The intruders were quickly expelled by the guards. 2 meddler, busybody, Colloq snoop(er), Nosy Parker, US kibitzer: You are an intruder into my private affairs.
INVASION|11|n. 1 incursion, raid, foray, intrusion, inroad, encroachment, trespass, infiltration; infringement, infraction, transgression, violation: The poachers were charged with invasion of private property. Unauthorized publication of that material is an invasion of your rights. 2 attack, assault, onslaught, aggression, offensive, drive, storming, blitzkrieg: The armoured divisions succeeded in stopping the invasion.
INVITING|8|adj. alluring, tempting, enticing, attractive, beckoning, appealing, captivating, engaging, intriguing, irresistible, winsome, beguiling, bewitching, entrancing, fascinating, tantalizing, seductive: She gave him an inviting smile but he still approached cautiously.
INVOLVED|15|adj. 1 implicated, concerned, affected, interested, active: The public enquiry was attended by all involved members of the community. 2 tangled, complicated, complex, twisted, snarled, convoluted, confused, confusing, intricate, tortuous, elaborate, knotty, Byzantine, labyrinthine: The plot is too involved to be followed easily. The involved problems of adolescence cannot be treated in a one-day conference. 3 involved with. associated with, entangled with, embroiled with, enmeshed with, Colloq mixed up with: Dennis is still very much involved with that singer from the Green Dragon.
IRRITATE|6|v. annoy, vex, nettle, pester, provoke, bother, anger, enrage, chafe, pique, exasperate, ruffle, hector, harass, harry, nag, plague, worry, fret, fluster, trouble, pick at or on, Colloq needle, get under (someone's) skin, get in (someone's) hair, hassle, peeve, get on (someone's) nerves, drive (someone) up the wall, get (someone's) hackles up, get (someone's) back up, drive (someone) crazy or mad, rub (someone) (up) the wrong way, Brit get up (someone's) nose, US burn (someone) up: All these stupid questions are beginning to irritate me.
ISOLATED|9|adj. 1 lone, solitary, single, singular, unique, anomalous, separate, special, particular, individual, exceptional, unrelated: In one isolated case they recommended a suspended sentence. 2 alone, separated, segregated, secluded, sequestered, cloistered, unconnected, detached, (set) apart, removed, cut off, excluded; forlorn, lonely, hermitic(al), eremitic(al), anchoretic(al), troglodytic(al), monastic: Away from his friends and family, he felt totally isolated. After his wife died, he led an isolated existence. 3 secluded, remote, out-of-the-way, off the beaten track, unfrequented, lonely; secret, hidden: For twenty years we lived in that isolated shack in the wilderness.
JAMBOREE|17|n. gathering, get-together, party, celebration, féte, festival, festivity, carnival, frolic, revelry, spree, carouse, jubilee, revels, charivari: Everyone is invited to the annual jamboree in the village square.
JEOPARDY|21|n. Usually, in sometimes at jeopardy. danger, peril; threat, menace, risk, hazard, chance, uncertainty, vulnerability, exposure, liability: She put her life in jeopardy by going into the lion's cage.
JINGOISM|14|n. chauvinism, flag-waving, superpatriotism, nationalism; hawkishness, warmongering, belligerence, bellicosity: 'Might makes right' is a basic tenet of jingoism.
JUDICIAL|14|adj. 1 legal, judiciary, judicatory, juridic(al); official: forensic: A formal judicial procedure can be quite costly. 2 critical, analytical, discriminating, distinguishing, discerning, keen, sharp, perceptive, percipient, perspicacious, differentiating, discriminatory, discriminative, judicious: Her decisions have always been judicial. 3 judgelike, magisterial, impartial, fair: He brought judicial procedures to bear on the handling of the problem.
JUNCTION|17|n. juncture, union, combination, joining, conjunction, meeting, linking, connection, conjoining, intersection, confluence; crossroads, interchange: The train robbery took place at the junction of the two railways.
JUNCTURE|17|n. 1 See junction. 2 point, time, moment, stage, period: At this juncture, suggesting a merger seems premature.
JUVENILE|18|adj. 1 young, youthful, under age, minor, teenage(d), immature, adolescent, childish, infantile, babyish, puerile, unsophisticated: What could be more juvenile than painting graffiti on public buildings. --n. 2 youth, boy, girl, adolescent, minor, Law infant: The police have arrested two juveniles for attacking an old lady in her own home.
KEEPSAKE|16|n. memento, souvenir, token, reminder, remembrance, relic: The locket is a keepsake from those happy days in Antibes.
KEYSTONE|15|n. necessity, crux, linchpin, basis, principle, foundation, cornerstone: Predestination was the keystone of his religion.
KICKBACK|10|n. rebate, refund, share, compensation, commission, percentage, reward; bribe, pay-off, Colloq chiefly US payola, US plugola: We get a kickback on every computer sold. Some disc jockeys were accepting kickbacks for playing particular records.
KINDNESS|11|n. 1 friendliness, kind-heartedness, warm-heartedness, graciousness, goodness, good-naturedness, good-heartedness, good will, benevolence, benignity, humaneness, humanity, decency, tenderness, gentleness, kindliness, charity, charitableness, generosity, philanthropy, beneficence, compassion, sympathy, understanding, thoughtfulness, consideration, cordiality, hospitality, warmth, geniality, indulgence, tolerance, patience: We shall always appreciate the kindness shown to us by our hosts during our visit. 2 favour, good deed or turn, service, act of kindness; generosity, assistance, aid: She did me a great kindness in introducing me to you. How can I repay your kindness?
KNOCKOFF|8|n. Colloq US imitation, copy, simulation, replica, facsimile, duplication: This cheap knock-off of a ø1000 watch is selling for ø50.
KNOCKOUT|10|n. 1 coup de grçce, Slang K.O., kayo: Carnera won by a knockout in the first round. 2 success, sensation, triumph, Colloq hit, winner, smash, smash hit, stunner: She looks a knockout with her new hairstyle.
LABOURED|11|adj. 1 strained, forced, difficult, hard, laborious, heavy: His breathing became laboured. 2 overdone, excessive, overwrought, ornate, elaborate, overworked, over-embellished, contrived, affected, artificial, unnatural: Her writing style is very laboured and much too stiff.
LABOURER|10|n. worker, workman, hand, blue-collar worker, working man, manual worker, drudge, Colloq Brit navvy: Get some labourers to clear away that rubble.
LACERATE|10|v. gash, cut, slash, tear, rip, claw, mangle; wound, rend, hurt: My feet were lacerated by the sharp stones. She suffered a lacerating attack from him for forgetting to pass on the message.
LADYLIKE|16|adj. well-bred, well-born, aristocratic, noble; refined, respectable, cultured, polished, elegant, mannerly, gracious, genteel, courteous, polite, courtly, dignified, proper, correct, decorous: I cannot believe that Mrs Gibson did not behave in a ladylike way.
LAMBASTE|12|v. 1 beat, whip, scourge, flog, lash, maul, horsewhip, cane, birch, thrash, bludgeon, trounce, drub, pummel, batter, belabour, cudgel: Terry threatened to lambaste anyone who interfered. 2 censure, rebuke, scold, reprimand, chide, admonish, reprove, upbraid, berate, scold, revile, attack, castigate, flay, Colloq dress down, get on (someone's) back, rake or haul over the coals, US call down, Slang chew or bawl out: The press lambasted the company for its unfair employment policies.
LANDLADY|13|n. 1 proprietor or proprietress, lady of the house, mistress, manager or Brit manageress, hostess: My landlady owns three bed and breakfasts. 2 See landlord, 2, below.
LANDLORD|10|n. 1 host, publican, proprietor, innkeeper, hotelier, manager, restaurateur, Boniface: Landlord! Two pints of your best bitter! 2 landlady, landowner, householder, (property) owner, lessor, Brit freeholder: My landlord has raised my rent claiming that his expenses have increased.
LANDMARK|15|n. 1 feature, guide, guidepost; identification: The tower serves as a landmark for those seeking the castle. 2 turning-point, watershed, milestone, monument: His essay remains a landmark in philosophical thought. --attributive 3 critical, crucial, pivotal, important, historic, significant, precedent-setting, momentous, notable, noteworthy, major: This stands out as a landmark decision in the annals of criminal law.
LANGUAGE|10|n. 1 speech, tongue, idiom, parlance, dialect, idiolect, patois, jargon, cant, argot, vernacular, Colloq lingo: How many languages do you speak? 2 communication, intercourse, interaction: Karl von Frisch studied the language of the bees. 3 jargon, lingua franca, vocabulary, terminology, vernacular, Colloq lingo: In medical language, a head cold is called 'coryza'. 4 wording, words, phrasing, phraseology, style, diction: Guarantees, insurance policies, and other such things should be written in simple language.
LAUDABLE|6|adj. praiseworthy, meritorious, creditable, admirable, outstanding, excellent, noteworthy, notable, commendable, estimable, creditable: He has made a laudable effort to keep up in his work.
LAVATORY|14|n. water-closet, WC, toilet, bathroom, Colloq Brit the Gents, the Ladies('), Men's (Room), rest room, privy, Chiefly military or institutional latrine; Nautical head; Brit (public) convenience, US equipment, outhouse; Colloq (little) boys' or girls' room, powder-room, Brit loo, lav, US can; Slang Brit bog: Our new house has two upstairs bathrooms and a downstairs lavatory.
LEFTOVER|14|n. 1 Usually, leftovers. remainder(s), remnant(s), rest, residue, residuum, balance, surplus, excess, superfluity, overage; scrap(s), leavings, crumbs, odds and ends, debris or d÷bris, refuse, waste, rubbish, rubble, detritus, Archaic orts: I'm just having leftovers for dinner tonight. --adj. 2 remaining, residual, extra, excess, unused, uneaten: Save some of the leftover ice-cream for later.
LEISURED|9|adj. wealthy, rich, affluent, prosperous, moneyed or monied, well-to-do, leisured: Yachts of that size are strictly for the leisured classes.
LENGTHEN|7|v. make longer, extend, elongate; stretch, drag out, draw out, prolong, protract, expand, continue: I need to lengthen the skirt an inch. The ten-minute interview lengthened into an hour. They lengthened the playing field.
LETTERED|7|adj. literate, literary, (well-)educated, erudite, scholarly, learned, well-informed, enlightened, knowledgeable, (well-)versed, well-read, cultured, cultivated: He was greatly influenced by the lettered men of his time.
LIBERATE|10|v. 1 (set) free, release, set at liberty, disenthral, emancipate, manumit, deliver, enfranchise, (let) loose, let go, let out, let off: When the enemy retreated, the army liberated the prisoners of war. After her divorce, she felt like a liberated woman. 2 steal, pilfer, purloin, take, appropriate: She was caught liberating some books from the library.
LIFELESS|9|adj. 1 dead: I stared at the lifeless body of the man. 2 unconscious, inanimate, insensate, inert, unmoving, dead, insensible: At the news of the accident, she sank, lifeless, to the floor. 3 dull, boring, tiresome, heavy, lacklustre, torpid, tedious, flat, stale, uninteresting, colourless, uninspiring, vapid, wooden: The production was a success apart from Ellen's lifeless performance as Portia. 4 barren, desert, desolate, bare, sterile, bleak, empty, uninhabited, unoccupied, dreary, waste: We gazed at the lifeless landscape of the moon.
LIFELIKE|15|adj. authentic, realistic, natural, true to life, real, faithful, graphic, vivid: She painted a very lifelike picture of her cat.
LIKEABLE|9|adj. likeable, genial, amiable, congenial, pleasant, simpatico, agreeable, pleasing, attractive, appealing, nice, friendly, winning, charming, engaging, good-natured, winsome: He is likeable enough, but not my ideal son-in-law.
LIKENESS|10|n. 1 similarity, resemblance, correspondence, analogy, agreement, parallelism: The artist has caught her likeness in the second painting. 2 copy, replica, facsimile, duplicate, reproduction, model, representation, portrait, painting, picture, drawing, photograph, sculpture,statue, statuette, image, simulacrum, icon or ikon: He sells miniature likenesses of the Eiffel Tower to tourists. 3 appearance, face, figure, image: The premier's likeness appears on posters throughout the country.
LIKEWISE|15|adv. 1 similarly, in the same or like manner or way: Penny is sitting quietly and you should do likewise. 2 as well, too, also, furthermore, further, besides, in addition, moreover, to boot: There are many ways to take exercise and, likewise, many ways to avoid it.
LISTLESS|6|adj. sluggish, lethargic, weary, weak, enervated, spent, languid, lifeless, heavy, phlegmatic, unemotional, impassive; unenthusiastic, indifferent, apathetic, unconcerned, lukewarm, tepid, cool, uncaring, insouciant; pococurante, Laodicean: She was just over an illness and feeling quite listless.
LITERARY|11|adj. 1 erudite, well-read, cultured, learned, bookish, scholarly, lettered, cultivated, refined, educated; literate: Her latest book has been scorned by the literary ÷lite. 2 written, formal, scholarly, pedantic, learned, academic, scholastic, school-marmish: His writing contains literary words rarely heard in ordinary conversation.
LITIGANT|9|n. litigator, party, plaintiff, appellant, suitor, petitioner, suer, defendant, appellee, accused: The judge suggested that the litigants settle out of court.
LOATHING|3|n. hatred, abhorrence, aversion, hate, odium, detestation, antipathy, repugnance, horror, revulsion: She treated her critics with loathing.
LOCATION|10|n. 1 site, place, locale, spot, setting, situation, position: We have just moved to a new location. 2 finding, discovery, laying or putting or getting one's hand(s) or finger(s) on, unearthing, turning up, tracking down: The location of the other half of the coin became an obsession with him.
LONESOME|10|adj. 1 alone, forsaken, friendless, rejected, unpopular, unwelcome, outcast, deserted, abandoned, estranged: She was terribly lonesome and homesick before meeting Patrick. 2 See lonely, 2.
LOOPHOLE|11|n. outlet, way out, means of escape, escape, subterfuge, pretext, evasion, quibble, Colloq dodge: They couldn't prosecute him because he found a loophole in the law.
LOPSIDED|12|adj. 1 uneven, askew, one-sided, awry, unsymmetrical, asymmetrical, unequal, crooked, unbalanced, irregular, Colloq cock-eyed: That lopsided bookcase is the sole product of Ed's cabinet-making class. 2 uneven, unequal, one-sided, biased, disproportionate, unfair, warped, twisted: Four against two - I'd call that lopsided, wouldn't you?
LUKEWARM|17|adj. 1 tepid, room temperature, warm: I like my bath-water lukewarm. 2 cool, indifferent, half-hearted, chill, chilly, phlegmatic, unresponsive, unenthusiastic, nonchalant, lackadaisical, apathetic, insouciant, Laodicean, unmoved, US half-baked, Colloq laid-back: My ideas for improving efficiency continued to receive a lukewarm reception from the board.
LUMINOUS|7|adj. 1 shiny, shining, bright, brilliant, lighted (up), lit (up), illuminated, radiant, alight, resplendent, lustrous, gleaming, shimmering, glistening, sparkling, dazzling, refulgent, effulgent: The moon shone with a luminous beauty. 2 glowing, aglow, luminescent, incandescent, phosphorescent, fluorescent: He had a watch with luminous hands. 3 clear, lucid, perspicuous, percipient, perspicacious, penetrating, discerning, perceptive, clear-eyed, clear-headed, keen, acute, sharp, explicit, incisive, specific, express; understandable, intelligible: His latest novel provides another example of his luminous style.
LUSCIOUS|3|adj. delectable, delicious, mouth-watering, tasty, toothsome, savoury, appetizing, rich, sweet, epicurean, ambrosial, palatable, pleasant; succulent, juicy, Colloq scrumptious, yummy: My grandmother used to make the most luscious pies and tarts.
LUSTROUS|5|adj. glossy, shiny, shined, polished, burnished: French polishing gives the furniture a lustrous finish.
MACHISMO|10|n. masculine pride or arrogance, manliness, virility, masculinity, grit, Colloq guts, Slang balls: He is just trying to impress you with his machismo.
MAGAZINE|20|n. 1 periodical, journal, publication: We publish a quarterly magazine about language. 2 arsenal, ammunition or munitions dump, armoury: Saboteurs infiltrated the camp and blew up the magazine.
MAGICIAN|9|n. 1 conjuror or conjurer, illusionist, wizard, sorcerer, sorceress, magus, necromancer, enchanter, enchantress, Merlin, Houdini, Circe, witch, warlock; thaumaturge, theurgist: The court magician changed the pebbles into precious stones by a wave of his wand. 2 marvel, miracle-worker, virtuoso, wizard, genius, master, Colloq whiz: Mary Lou Williams is a magician on the boogie-woogie piano.
MAGNETIC|13|adj. attractive, attracting, engaging, captivating, enthralling, seductive, alluring, entrancing, bewitching, beguiling, arresting, spellbinding, irresistible, charismatic, winning, winsome, inviting: Because of Amy's magnetic personality, men flock about her.
MAINSTAY|13|n. main or chief or principal support, anchor (to windward), sheet anchor, bulwark, buttress, linchpin, main or greatest strength: David remains the mainstay of the sales force.
MAINTAIN|10|v. 1 continue, preserve, persevere in, keep going, persist in, keep (up), carry on, retain, perpetuate, prolong, sustain, uphold: Sarah maintained friendly relations with her ex-husband. Try to maintain your composure. 2 look after, take care of, care for, preserve, (keep in) service, keep up, keep in repair; nurture, support: It is expensive to maintain a vintage car. Allison maintains an ancient aunt in Piddlington. 3 hold, state, say, declare, claim, assert, allege, testify, contend, aver, avow, announce, proclaim, vouchsafe, profess, insist (on), affirm: Despite evidence to the contrary, he maintains that he is innocent. 4 defend, stand by, keep, fight for; take up the cudgels for, make a case for, advocate, champion, take or make a stand for, plead for, back (up), support, vindicate, justify, Colloq go to bat for: He maintained his ground in the face of virulent attacks.
MAJESTIC|19|adj. 1 regal, dignified, grand, imperial, royal, noble, lordly, lofty, elevated, exalted, glorious, magnificent, monumental, impressive, striking, imposing, awesome, splendid, marvellous, kingly, queenly, princely: With majestic ceremony, the procession entered the cathedral. 2 pompous, supercilious, disdainful, superior, arrogant, haughty, magisterial, imperious, grandiose, affected: She dismissed him with a majestic wave of her hand.
MAJORITY|20|n. 1 bulk, preponderance, mass, more than half, the better or best part, the greater part or number, lion's share: The majority of shares were bought by existing shareholders. 2 adulthood, maturity, seniority, womanhood, manhood: They reach their majority in 1997.
MANHATER|13|n. misanthrope, misanthropist: He says he prefers to live alone because he's a man-hater.
MANIACAL|12|adj. 1 manic, maniac, insane, lunatic, mad, demented, deranged, hysterical, mentally ill, of unsound mind, non compos mentis, psychotic: He had to be hospitalized because of his maniacal behaviour. 2 hysterical, berserk, wild, crazy, Slang loony: His maniacal outbursts frightened us.
MANIFEST|13|adj. 1 apparent, clear, evident, obvious, plain, patent, blatant, conspicuous, unmistakable or unmistakeable, discernible, recognizable, comprehensible, distinct, palpable, definite, explicit, unambiguous, unquestionable, indubitable, indisputable: He lost his job because of his manifest dishonesty. --v. 2 show, demonstrate, exhibit, evince, reveal, disclose, display, betray; express, declare: Fitzsimmons had been manifesting signs of dissatisfaction with his assignment. 3 prove, corroborate, substantiate, attest: His distaste for cauliflower was manifested by the look on his face.
MANIFOLD|14|adj. diverse, diversified, multifarious, varied, various, assorted, multiplex, miscellaneous, sundry, many-sided, many different, Literary divers; many, numerous, multitudinous: I have manifold reasons for wishing you to stay.
MANNERED|9|adj. artificial, contrived, stilted, stiff, affected, insincere, pompous, pretentious, posed, unnatural, hypocritical, Colloq phoney or US also phony, pseudo, highfalutin or hifalutin, la-di-da or lah-di-dah or la-de-da, hoity-toity, on one's high horse, high-hat, uppity or Brit uppish: Alice's speech is too mannered for anyone to feel close to her.
MARGINAL|11|adj. 1 borderline, minimal, small, slight, negligible, insignificant, tiny, infinitesimal: There are marginal differences in policy on this issue. 2 borderline, on the edge, disputable, questionable, doubtful, dubious: His qualifications for the job are marginal.
MARRIAGE|9|n. 1 matrimony, wedlock: Their marriage has lasted over forty years. 2 nuptials, wedding: The marriage took place at noon. 3 association, alliance, confederation, federation, affiliation, connection, coupling, union, merger, amalgamation, integration, Colloq hook-up: Would a marriage of the companies benefit the shareholders?
MASSACRE|10|n. 1 slaughter, slaughtering, carnage, annihilation, annihilating, blood bath, killing, execution, extermination, exterminating, butchery, butchering, (mass) murder, murdering, slaying, liquidation, pogrom, genocide: The massacre of millions of innocent people followed the coup. --v. 2 slaughter, annihilate, kill, execute, exterminate, butcher, murder, slay, liquidate, destroy, eliminate, obliterate, eradicate, put to the sword, decimate, Colloq mow down, Slang bump off: It was their policy to massacre all the men and take captive all the women and children.
MATCHING|5|adj. 1 corresponding, homologous, comparable, equivalent, complementary: Birds' wings and fishes' fins are matching parts. 2 analogous, like, corresponding, identical: He wore a pink jacket and matching shoes. She bought a set of matching luggage.
MATERIAL|10|n. 1 substance, matter, stuff, fabric: It is hard to tell what material this is made of. 2 cloth, fabric, textile, stuff: This material is too sheer for a dress. 3 constituents, elements, components: We import the raw materials and make the finished product here. 4 information, data, facts, statistics, figures, documents, documentation, papers, notes, resources, means, research, apparatus, supplies: I have not yet gathered enough material for the article. --adj. 5 physical, tangible, concrete, solid, real, substantive, substantial, palpable, corporeal, bodily: It was many years before scientists could persuade people that air is a material substance. 6 consequential, important, significant, serious, substantial: How could one horseshoe nail be material in the outcome of a battle? 7 worldly, earthly, mundane, temporal, non-spiritual, secular, lay, materialistic: He ponders the abstract, not the base, material things of everyday life.
MATERNAL|10|adj. motherly, warm, nurturing, caring, understanding, affectionate, tender, kind, kindly, devoted, fond, doting; maternalistic: Her interest in him is strictly maternal.
MATURITY|13|n. 1 adulthood, majority, full growth or development: Maturity is as much a state of mind as a matter of age. 2 ripeness, readiness, mellowness; maturation: Different wines need ageing for different periods to attain maturity. 3 readiness, perfection, completion, fullness, consummation, operability, applicability; maturation: Their plans were brought to maturity.
MAXIMIZE|28|n. 1 increase, broaden, improve, magnify, augment, add to, expand, build up, enlarge: He maximizes his chances for winning by betting on several numbers. To compete, you must maximize your productivity. 2 inflate, overplay, overdo, overstate, exaggerate, oversell, make much of, overstress, (over)colour, enhance, embroider (on), embellish, elaborate, magnify: Roland tends to maximize his role while minimizing others'.
MEANTIME|12|n., adv. See meanwhile, below.
MEASURED|11|adj. 1 slow, regulated, unhurried, leisurely, stately, majestic, dignified, sedate, solemn: The silent procession moved through the streets at a measured pace. 2 careful, cautious, prudent, calculated, studied, considered, deliberate, systematic, sober, intentional, planned, regulated, premeditated, well-thought-out, reasoned: He planned the murder with the same measured deliberation he used in writing computer programs. 3 rhythmic(al), regular, cadenced, steady, uniform, even, monotonous: The measured marching of the soldiers echoed through the night. 4 precise, regulated, exact, predetermined, modulated, quantified; clockwork: A measured amount of each ingredient is automatically added at each stage of the manufacturing process.
MEDICINE|9|n. medication, medicament, remedy, drug, pharmaceutical, prescription, Archaic physic; nostrum, panacea, cure-all: There is no medicine that can cure your affliction.
MEDIOCRE|13|adj. middling, indifferent, ordinary, commonplace, average, medium, everyday, US garden-variety, run-of-the-mill, pedestrian, undistinguished, uninspired, unimaginative, unexceptional, tolerable, fair, not (that or too) good, not bad, second-rate, third-rate, inferior, poor, Brit common-or-garden variety, US garden-variety, Colloq so so, fair to middling, nothing to brag or to write home about, no great shakes: It was a mediocre play, and we couldn't be bothered to sit through it.
MEDITATE|11|v. 1 reflect, think, muse, ponder, study, ruminate, cogitate, contemplate, cerebrate, be lost in thought, be in a brown study: Please don't interrupt me while I'm meditating. 2 Often, meditate on or upon. consider, contemplate, mull over, reflect on or upon, ponder on or over, chew over, plan, scheme, devise, design, conceive, frame, think up, have in mind: She was meditating revenge, while I was meditating on how to discourage her.
MEMORIAL|12|adj. 1 commemorative: A memorial plaque will be dedicated to him tomorrow. --n. 2 monument, marker, plaque, cenotaph, statue, memento, remembrance, reminder, souvenir: Let this serve as a memorial to those who died in the wars. Wreaths were laid at the foot of the memorial.
MEMORIZE|21|v. learn by heart or rote, commit to memory, learn word for word, retain; remember: He memorized the entire Rime of the Ancient Mariner .
MENACING|9|adj. threatening, looming, impending, ominous, frightening, terrifying, intimidating, minacious, minatory or minatorial, louring or lowering; dangerous, perilous, hazardous, risky, chancy: Menacing storm clouds scudded across the darkening sky.
MERCIFUL|11|adj. compassionate, sympathetic, forgiving, kind, kindly, clement, kind-hearted, forbearing, sparing, lenient, tender, humane, liberal, mild, tender-hearted, soft-hearted, gracious, generous, magnanimous, benignant, beneficent, charitable, thoughtful, considerate, indulgent, big: She begged the governor to be merciful and to spare her life.
METAPHOR|15|n. figure (of speech), allusion, analogy, analogue, reference, image, trope, symbol; simile, parabole; metonymy, symbolism, imagery: When she said she was blue, she was using 'blue' as a metaphor. Poetry is rife with metaphor.
METEORIC|12|adj. 1 brief, short-lived, temporary, transitory, transient, ephemeral, evanescent, impermanent, fleeting, momentary, swift, overnight: She enjoyed a meteoric rise as a singer, but after two years at the top she disappeared without a trace. 2 brilliant, dazzling, flashing, spectacular, sensational: His meteoric career was launched in 1974.
MILITANT|10|adj. 1 aggressive, combative, pugnacious, belligerent, hostile, contentious, antagonistic, offensive, truculent, fierce, ferocious, warlike, bellicose, martial, jingoistic, hawkish: Those who have experienced war are not likely to be militant. 2 warring, fighting, combatant, combating, embattled; at war, up in arms: The militant members of the council refused to discuss terms. --n. 3 fighter, aggressor, combatant, belligerent, warrior, soldier: Anyone who experiences the hardships of a long strike may think twice before being a militant.
MILITARY|13|adj. 1 martial, soldierly, naval, army, fighting, service: The military machine was poised to strike. --n. 2 (armed) services or forces, army, navy, air force, military establishment, soldiery: The military will oppose any reductions in spending for arms.
MILITATE|10|v. 1 Usually, militate against. discourage, work or go or operate against, foil, counter, countervail, cancel (out), reduce (possibility of), prevent, hinder, resist, oppose: His poor prison record militates against his early parole. 2 Usually, militate for or in favour of. be on the side of, favour, further, promote, help, aid: The same reasoning that militated in favour of lower taxes then persists today.
MINDLESS|9|adj. 1 stupid, asinine, thick, thickheaded, obtuse, idiotic, imbecilic, moronic, thoughtless, witless, senseless, brainless, feeble-minded, fatuous, addle-brained, addle-pated, feather-brained, Colloq Brit gormless: Many of the programmes on television are mindless twaddle. 2 inattentive, unthinking, thoughtless, unaware: He plunged into the pool, mindless of any of the perils that awaited him.
MINIMIZE|21|v. 1 reduce, shrink, lessen, diminish, prune, abbreviate, pare (down), cut (down), curtail, abridge, shorten, decrease, minify: Our stringent safety measures minimize the chance of an accident. 2 belittle, de-emphasize, downplay, play down, make little or light of, disparage, decry, deprecate, depreciate, misprize or misprise, devalue, devaluate, undervalue, underrate, underestimate, US talk down: Being modest, she minimizes her role in the organization.
MINISTER|10|n. 1 cleric, clergyman, clergywoman, ecclesiastic, pastor, vicar, priest, father, reverend, churchman, divine, parson, preacher, man or woman of the cloth, evangelist, missionary, dean, curate, cur÷, abb÷, chaplain, Colloq padre, Slang US military sky pilot, Holy Joe: The marriage was performed by a visiting minister. 2 envoy, delegate, legate, diplomat, ambassador, emissary, plenipotentiary, minister plenipotentiary, envoy extraordinary, minister resident, consul, agent, charg÷ d'affaires, Brit cabinet officer or member: The minister himself signed the treaty. --v. 3 Usually, minister to. attend (to or on or upon), wait on, care for, look after, see to, accommodate; serve, supply, aid, help, assist, support: In his last days, she ministered to him in every way.
MINISTRY|13|n. 1 priesthood, sacred calling, the church, the pulpit, the cloth; religion, holy orders: Burt retired from the ministry to write tracts. 2 clergy, clergymen or clergywomen, clericals, the cloth, church elders or elders of the church: During his regime, the ministry exercised great influence on the government. 3 department, office, bureau, agency: Military affairs are the responsibility of the Ministry of Defence.
MINSTREL|10|n. bard, troubadour, balladeer, jongleur, skald or scald, minnesinger, Meistersinger: The medieval minstrels wandered the countryside, entertaining as they went.
MISCARRY|9|v. abort, fail, fall through, break down, go wrong, founder, come to nothing or naught or nought, go awry, come to grief, go amiss, misfire, go up or end up in smoke, perish, die: The plan to steal the crown jewels miscarried.
MISCHIEF|10|n. 1 misbehaviour, naughtiness, impishness, elfishness or elvishness, roguishness, rascality, devilry or deviltry, mischievousness, playfulness, devilment, badness, Colloq monkey business, shenanigans, Brit monkey tricks or US monkeyshines: That boy is always up to some mischief. 2 harm, injury, damage, detriment, trouble, hurt, wrong, difficulty, disruption, destruction, misfortune, evil: He didn't realize the mischief a casual remark could do. She was accused of malicious mischief when she punctured his car tyres.
MISHMASH|8|n. mess, medley, hash, gallimaufry, farrago, pot-pourri, jumble, pastiche, mixture, salmagundi, hotchpotch or US and Canadian hodgepodge, tangle, omnium gatherum, m÷lange, olio, olla podrida, goulash, stew: His paper is nothing more than a mishmash of other people's ideas.
MISPRINT|12|n. error, mistake, erratum, typographical error, printer's or printing error, Brit literal, Colloq typo: We cannot publish a book containing so many misprints.
MISSPENT|10|adj. wasted, squandered, idle, dissipated, thrown away, profitless, prodigal: Proficiency at billiards is a sign of a misspent youth.
MISTAKEN|14|adj. 1 (all or completely) wrong, amiss, incorrect, in error, wide of the mark, in the wrong, inaccurate, out of order, Colloq barking up the wrong tree, off, (way) off the beam, on the wrong track, US full of hot air, Slang full of it (= Taboo 'full of shit'), US all wet: I may be mistaken, but I thought I saw your wife with Lord Cholmondley. 2 erroneous, faulty, false, fallacious, misinformed, incorrect, wrong, inaccurate, flawed, warped, distorted, twisted, misguided, Slang cock-eyed: You have a mistaken impression of me.
MISTRESS|8|n. 1 lover, girlfriend, live-in lover, kept woman, concubine, inamorata, paramour, Literary odalisque, Archaic doxy, Colloq US alternative other, POSSLQ (= 'Person of the Opposite Sex Sharing Living Quarters'): She was the mistress of a leading politician. 2 schoolmistress, instructress, governess; headmistress: She had a rewarding career as a mistress in a girls' school in Lancashire.
MISTRUST|10|v. 1 suspect, distrust, be suspicious of, doubt, be or feel wary or suspicious or doubtful of or about, have (one's) doubts about, question, have reservations; beware; Slang be or feel leery of or about: He has not done anything specifically bad, but I mistrust his motives. --n. 2 suspicion, distrust, doubt, scepticism, wariness, reservation, chariness, misgiving(s), uncertainty, unsureness, apprehension, apprehensiveness: Is there nothing I can say to dispel your mistrust of me?
MITIGATE|11|v. moderate, temper, reduce, abate, lessen, decrease, relieve, ease, ease up (on), relax, alleviate, remit, assuage, allay, let up (on), slacken, slacken up (on), tone down, lighten, appease, palliate, mollify, calm, tranquillize, soothe, placate, quiet or chiefly Brit quieten, still, soften, dull, blunt, take the edge off, US lighten up (on): The pain was mitigated by taking aspirin. The relief organizations did their best to mitigate the effects of the disaster.
MOBILIZE|21|v. assemble, marshal, conscript, enrol, enlist, organize, muster, levy, rally, activate, call up, prepare, ready, US draft: A huge army was mobilized, virtually overnight.
MODERATE|11|adj. 1 temperate, calm, reasonable, cool, judicious, rational, balanced, unexcessive, modest, sober, sensible, commonsensical, controlled, deliberate, steady: In view of the conflicting interests expressed, the council has adopted a moderate policy regarding parking. 2 centre, middle-of-the-road, non-radical, non-reactionary: Bella's political outlook is said by some to be moderate. 3 fair, middling, average, ordinary, medium, middle, modest, mediocre, unexceptional, Colloq fair to middling: They have a good range of clothing, all sold at very moderate prices. --n. 4 middle-of-the-roader, non-radical, non-reactionary, centrist: Where do the moderates stand on the issue of constitutional reform? --v. 5 abate, calm, mollify, soothe, ease, relax, alleviate, mitigate, soften, dull, blunt, cushion, relieve, reduce, lessen, remit, slacken, diminish, decrease, defuse, temper, Colloq let up (on): He would get along better if he moderated the violence of his reactions and learned to relax. 6 mediate, arbitrate, referee, judge, chair, supervise, preside (over), coordinate, run, regulate, manage, direct: Professor Gill will moderate the panel discussion.
MODULATE|11|v. adjust, regulate, set, tune, balance, temper, moderate, modify; lower, tune or tone or turn down, soften: Modulate the volume to suit the size of the auditorium. Please modulate your voice - everyone can hear you!
MOMENTUM|14|n. energy, force, drive, strength, impetus, power, inertia, impulse, thrust, push: The car's momentum carried it over the cliff. Her encouragement has given me the momentum needed to carry on.
MONARCHY|11|n. 1 kingdom, empire, domain, dominion, principality; state, nation, country: According to Gibbon, a hereditary monarchy presents the fairest scope for ridicule. 2 monocracy, autocracy, absolutism, royalism, monarchism, sovereignty, totalitarianism, authoritarianism; despotism, tyranny: Those who are discontented with monarchy call it tyranny.
MONETARY|13|adj. pecuniary, cash, money, fiscal, financial, capital; numismatic, Technical nummular, nummary: Monetary shortages result from the government's tightening its hold on the economy by raising interest rates.
MONUMENT|12|n. 1 marker, cairn, memorial, tablet, shrine, commemoration; sepulchre, gravestone, tombstone, headstone, tomb, mausoleum, cenotaph: Many monuments have been established in memory of those who died in the war. 2 testimony, testimonial, testament, token, witness, record, evidence, example, exemplar: The book will survive as a lasting monument to her scholarship.
MORALITY|13|n. 1 ethics, morals, ethicalness, moralness, principle(s), mores, integrity, propriety, standards, ideals; honesty, right, rightness, righteousness, rectitude, justice, fair play, fairness, decency, uprightness, integrity: Morality should not be conditioned by expediency. 2 behaviour, conduct, habit(s), custom(s): Are you suggesting that utilitarianism is a guide for morality?
MOREOVER|13|adv. furthermore, further, besides, not only that, more than that, what is more; to boot, into the bargain, in addition, additionally, as well, too: She was pleased that I had brought some wine - it was, moreover, her favourite burgundy.
MORIBUND|13|adj. 1 dying, in extremis, at death's door, failing, fading, with one foot in the grave, half-dead, breathing one's last, expiring, on one's last legs, on one's deathbed: Apparently moribund for weeks, he suddenly revived when he saw her. 2 ending, declining, obsolescent, weak, on the way out, waning, on the wane, dying out; stagnating, stagnant: At the time, the Ottoman Empire was already moribund.
MOTIVATE|13|v. prompt, activate, move, inspire, incite, induce, actuate, stimulate, provoke, influence, encourage, occasion, bring about, cause; excite, egg (on), urge, prod, spur, galvanize, goad, rouse, arouse, stir (up), wheedle, coax, persuade, cajole, tempt, push, impel, drive, instigate: The biggest problem is motivating students to apply themselves to academic subjects.
MOUNTAIN|10|n. 1 height, elevation, mount, eminence, prominence, peak, alp, tor, summit, No. Eng. and Scots fell, Scots and Irish English ben: Her favourite sport is climbing mountains. 2 heap, pile, stack, mound, accumulation, abundance, mass, Colloq ton(s), heaps, piles, stacks: I have a mountain of laundry to do.
MOURNFUL|13|adj. 1 sad, sorrowful, dismal, melancholy, blue, afflicted, doleful, dolorous, grief-stricken, rueful, forlorn, woebegone, sombre, lugubrious, funereal, joyless, dispirited, cheerless, unhappy, downhearted, heavy-hearted, disconsolate, heartbroken, inconsolable, despondent, desolate, despairing, heartsick, overcome, prostrate: The mournful crowd filed past the bier to pay their last respects. 2 deplorable, sorrowful, grievous, distressing, upsetting, tragic, saddening, disheartening, depressing, lamentable, catastrophic, calamitous, disastrous: The mournful news of the great loss of life in the explosion was broadcast round the world.
MOURNING|7|n. 1 grief, lament, grieving, lamentation, sorrowing, keening, weeping, wailing: The Highlanders are wont to mingle a degree of solemn mirth with their mourning. 2 bereavement, loss, anguish, sorrow, misery, grief, sadness, woe, woefulness, melancholy, heartache, despondency, despair, desolation: In China people wear white as a sign of mourning. 3 black, widow's weeds, sackcloth and ashes: It was customary at that time to spend at least one month in mourning.
MOUTHFUL|11|n. morsel, bite, spoonful, forkful, lump, chunk, gob, hunk: He took a mouthful of food.
MOVEMENT|15|n. 1 repositioning, move, motion, relocation, moving, migration, shift, transfer, flow, displacement: Population movement increased dramatically in the Middle Ages. 2 action, activity, move, moving, stir, stirring: There was a sudden movement in the bushes. 3 gesture, gesticulation, move, flicker, sign, signal; manoeuvre, change of attitude or position: Only the slightest upward movement of his eyebrow indicated his surprise. Every little movement has a meaning all its own. 4 mechanism, works, workings, moving parts, machinery, action, gears, Colloq innards: Technically, the movement of a watch does not include the escapement. 5 campaign, crusade, drive; front, faction, party, group, wing: The 1960s saw many successes for the civil rights' movement in America. 6 change, activity, action, shift, advance or decline, increase or decrease, upward or downward movement, stirring; development, progress: Shares displayed little movement in today's trading. 7 drift, trend, tendency, course, swing: They have noted a growing movement towards religious fundamentalism.
MURDERER|11|n. murderess, killer, slayer, assassin, homicide, cutthroat, liquidator, executioner, butcher, Slang hit man: The police have arrested someone they are certain is the murderer.
MUSCULAR|8|adj. sinewy, brawny, burly, powerful, powerfully built, strapping, rugged, husky, robust, athletic, sturdy, well-muscled, broad-shouldered: We all envied Nick's muscular physique.
MUTATION|10|n. 1 change, changing, alteration, altering, modification, modifying, transformation, transforming, metamorphosis, metamorphosing, transmutation, transmuting, transfiguration, transfiguring, evolution, evolving, variation, varying: For years he studied the mutation of the sweet pea. 2 variant, variation, deviation, deviant, mutant, anomaly, departure: The mutations exhibited marked differences over the generations.
MUTILATE|10|v. 1 maim, disfigure, mangle, cripple, lame, butcher, disable; dismember, amputate, hack off, cut off, lop off, tear off, rip off: Formerly, the hands of thieves were mutilated as an example to others. 2 spoil, mar, ruin, damage, deface, vandalize, destroy: As the book had been mutilated, he had to buy the library a replacement.
MUTINOUS|7|adj. 1 rebellious, revolutionary, subversive, seditious, insurgent, insurrectionary: The mutinous crew was finally subdued and clapped in irons. 2 recalcitrant, refractory, contumacious, obstinate, defiant, insubordinate, disobedient, unruly, unmanageable, ungovernable, uncontrollable: Whenever we told Clare to work harder at school she became mutinous.
MYSTICAL|15|adj. 1 allegorical, symbolic(al), mystic, cabbalistic, arcane, unrevealed, secret, occult, supernatural, esoteric, other-worldly, preternatural, cryptic, concealed, hidden, clandestine, private, veiled, ineffable, mysterious: A mystical spirit dwells in the raven that sits on his shoulder. 2 See mysterious, 2, above.
MYSTIQUE|11|n. mystery, magic, charisma, aura, inscrutability, supernaturalism, preternaturalism, strangeness: She has a certain mystique about her.
MYTHICAL|13|adj. 1 mythic, mythological, fabled, legendary, traditional, folkloric, storied, romantic, fairy-tale, story-book; allegorical, symbolic, parabolic(al): Campbell has demonstrated astounding similarities amongst the mythical tales of unrelated cultures. 2 mythic, fanciful, imaginary, fictitious, make-believe, made-up, chimerical, untrue: When she was about seven, my daughter had a mythical friend named Theodosia.
NAMELESS|8|adj. 1 unnamed, innominate, unidentified, anonymous, pseudonymous, incognito, unknown, unheard-of, unsung: How much we owe the nameless inventor of the wheel! 2 inexpressible, indefinable, unidentifiable, unspecified, unspecifiable: A nameless dread seized him as he entered the cave. 3 ineffable, unutterable, unspeakable, unmentionable, abominable, horrible, indescribable, repulsive: Paganism allowed man to sink beneath a flood of nameless sensualities.
NARCOTIC|12|adj. 1 soporific, stuporific, hypnotic, sedative, somnolent, sleep-inducing, opiate, dulling, numbing, anaesthetic, stupefacient, stupefying, stupefactive, tranquillizing, Lethean: Most narcotic drugs may be sold only with a doctor's prescription. --n. 2 drug, soporific, stuporific, hypnotic, sedative, opiate, anaesthetic, stupefacient, tranquillizer: Many doctors are reluctant to prescribe narcotics.
NARRATOR|6|n. reporter, storyteller, raconteur, taleteller, teller of tales, anecdotist or anecdotalist, relator, annalist, chronicler, describer, author; voice-over: We sat spellbound waiting for the narrator to continue.
NARROWLY|12|adv. 1 barely, (only) just, scarcely, hardly, by a hair's breadth; by the skin of one's teeth, Colloq by a whisker: The speeding lorry narrowly missed those children. 2 closely, carefully, meticulously, scrupulously, searchingly, critically: She regarded him narrowly before speaking.
NATIONAL|8|adj. 1 nationwide, country-wide, state, governmental, civil; public, popular, US federal: It took years to enact national clean-air laws. 2 nationalistic, nationalist, patriotic, jingoistic, chauvinistic: During the war, national feelings ran high. --n. 3 citizen, subject, inhabitant, resident; native: Stephenson left England years ago and is now an Australian national.
NAUSEATE|8|v. sicken, disgust, repel, revolt, offend: Your hypocrisy nauseates me. When you get used to it, eating snails no longer seems nauseating.
NAUSEOUS|5|adj. nauseating, loathsome, sickening, disgusting, repellent, vomit-provoking, offensive, revolting, repugnant, repulsive, abhorrent, nasty, foul, unpleasant, stomach-turning, Technical emetic: A nauseous odour emanated from the crypt.
NAUTICAL|10|adj. maritime, marine, seafaring, seagoing; naval; boating, yachting, sailing; navigational: Britain has always been a nautical nation. One must observe the nautical rules of the road.
NAVIGATE|12|v. 1 sail, voyage, cruise, journey; cross, traverse: After navigating the Indian Ocean for a month, we reached the Seychelles. 2 manoeuvre, handle, sail, guide, pilot, steer, direct, skipper, captain, Nautical con: It was tricky navigating through the shoals. Richard has navigated the company through rough waters over the years.
NAYSAYER|14|n. denier, refuser, disdainer, rejecter or rejector; prophet of doom, pessimist, sceptic, dissenter, defeatist: Don't expect any encouragement from a naysayer like Raymond.
NEBULOUS|7|adj. vague, hazy, clouded, unclear, obscure, indistinct, fuzzy, muddy, ill-defined, shapeless, amorphous, blurred, indeterminate, murky, opaque, turbid, dim, foggy, faint, pale: He has only the most nebulous idea of what the lecture was about.
NEEDLESS|5|adj. 1 unnecessary, non-essential, unessential, unneeded, unwanted, useless, uncalled-for, gratuitous, superfluous, redundant, excess, excessive, tautological, dispensable, expendable, supererogatory, de trop, pleonastic: He went to a lot of needless trouble to change the tyre. It is needless to raise further questions. 2 needless to say. naturally, (as a matter) of course, obviously, it goes without saying: Needless to say, he will have to resign when this comes to light.
NEGATIVE|12|adj. 1 contradictory, anti, contrary, dissenting, dissentious, disputing, disputatious, argumentative, adversarial, adversative, antagonistic, antipathetic, adverse, US adversary: He has adopted a very negative attitude towards his job. Few negative voices were heard on the issue. 2 pessimistic, unenthusiastic, cool, cold, uninterested, unresponsive: The reaction to our offer has been largely negative. 3 nullifying, annulling, neutralizing, voiding, cancelling: The laws are mainly negative, listing only things one must not do. 4 negating, refusing, denying, gainsaying, opposing: The judge came to a negative decision regarding bail. 5 in the negative. negatively, 'No': Asked if she wanted to go, she replied in the negative.
NEUROTIC|10|adj. psychoneurotic, unstable, disturbed, confused, irrational, disordered, maladjusted, distraught, overwrought, anxious, nervous, obsessive, deviant, abnormal: Many people are neurotic about something.
NEWCOMER|15|n. 1 alien, immigrant, foreigner, outlander, stranger, settler, colonist, outsider: The newcomers quickly established themselves and became self-sufficient. 2 beginner, amateur, novice, proselyte, neophyte, tiro or tyro, initiate, trainee, learner, fledgling or Brit also fledgeling, US freshman, Colloq greenhorn: Though experienced in book publishing, he was a newcomer to magazine publishing.
NICKNAME|8|n. 1 pet name, sobriquet, epithet, agnomen, Colloq moniker or monicker, handle: Her real name is Josephine, but her nickname is Dusty. 2 diminutive: A common nickname for Terence is Terry.
NIGGLING|3|adj. 1 irritating, worrying, worrisome, irksome, vexing, vexatious, annoying, troublesome: There are a few niggling matters that I must see my accountant about. 2 petty, nugatory, trifling, trivial, fussy, insignificant, unimportant, inconsequential, frivolous, Colloq piddling, nit-picking, US and Canadian picayune: Bill always ignores the core of a problem and occupies himself with the niggling details.
NOBILITY|13|n. 1 nobleness, dignity, grandeur, illustriousness, greatness, glory, influence, authority, leadership, distinction, probity, integrity, excellence, goodness, character, rectitude, righteousness, ethics, honesty, honourableness, decency, justness, high-mindedness, magnanimity, prestige, loftiness, primacy, significance: The man's nobility was evident from his mien and bearing. 2 rank, position, class, birth, blue blood: Their nobility is recognized only at court and in fashionable society. 3 the nobility. the gentry, the ÷lite, the aristocracy, Colloq the upper crust, the ruling class(es), the Establishment, US the Four Hundred: With a name like Hohenzollern, her family must be from the European nobility.
NOMINATE|10|v. choose, select, name, appoint, designate, suggest, offer, submit, recommend, propose, present, put up or forward; forward; Formal put forth: Baker has been nominated for the presidency.
NONEVENT|11|n. anticlimax, Colloq non-starter, lead balloon, dud, Brit damp squib: Jeremy's party turned out to be the non-event of the year.
NONSENSE|8|n. 1 rubbish, drivel, gibberish, gobbledegook or gobbledygook, twaddle, trash, babble, balderdash, moonshine, bombast, fustian, rodomontade, puffery, flummery, blather or blether, bunkum, poppycock, stuff and nonsense, double-talk, jargon, mumbo-jumbo, jabberwocky, cackle, gas, palaver, Colloq bunk, piffle, rot, bosh, eyewash, hogwash, malarkey, bilge (water), boloney or baloney, claptrap, hot air, Brit tosh, Old-fashioned Brit gammon, waffle, US apple-sauce, horse feathers, garbage, bushwa; Slang crap, tripe, bull, hooey, double Dutch, Taboo slang bullshit, horseshit, Brit (a load of old) cobblers: Watson's speech on the benefits of tobacco was unmitigated nonsense. 2 mischief, clowning, antics, capering, horseplay, pranks, tricks, jokes, silliness, foolishness, inanity, frivolity, tomfoolery, joking, jesting, waggishness, buffoonery, shenanigans, Colloq monkey business, Brit monkey tricks, US monkeyshines: Keep up this nonsense and you'll get into a lot of trouble!
NOTATION|8|n. 1 note, memorandum, jotting, record, reminder, minute(s), abstract, Colloq memo: I shall make a notation of that in my diary. 2 symbols, signs, code, characters, symbolism: In musical notation, a minim represents two beats.
NOWADAYS|15|adv. See now, 2, above.
NUISANCE|10|n. 1 annoyance, inconvenience, trial, ordeal, burden, irritation, irritant, thorn in the flesh or side, difficulty, bother, US bur under the saddle, Colloq pain (in the neck or rear), headache, hassle, Slang US and Canadian pain in the butt, Taboo slang pain in the Brit arse, or US ass: Having to paint the room again was a terrible nuisance. 2 bore, pest, nag, tease, tormentor or tormenter: James has made a nuisance of himself by telephoning every fifteen minutes.
OBEDIENT|11|adj. compliant, dutiful, duteous, observant, respectful, tractable, yielding, conformable, adaptable, agreeable, amenable, acquiescent, submissive, subservient, docile, passive, timid, biddable, pliant: Prunella was always an obedient child. All matter and energy is obedient to the laws of physics.
OBITUARY|13|n. necrology, death notice, eulogy, necrologue, Colloq obit: Mark Twain is one of the few people ever to have read his own obituary.
OBLIGATE|11|n. oblige, pledge, commit, bind; require, compel, constrain, force: I feel deeply obligated to her for her kindness to our children. We are obligated to do what we are told.
OBLIGING|8|adj. accommodating, willing, indulgent, gracious, courteous, civil, considerate, polite, agreeable, amenable, kind, kindly, helpful, friendly, amiable, neighbourly, supportive: It was very obliging of you to look after my cat while I was gone.
OBLIVION|13|n. 1 blankness, blackness, darkness, obscurity, nothingness, nihility, anonymity, extinction, non-existence, void, limbo: The rock band enjoyed brief fame, then sank into oblivion. 2 unawareness, obliviousness, forgetfulness, heedlessness, disregard, unconsciousness, insensibility: I sank back into the sweet oblivion of deep sleep.
OBSERVER|13|n. witness, eyewitness, spectator, viewer, onlooker, beholder, watcher, looker-on; non-participant: UN observers reported that the battle was over.
OBSOLETE|10|adj. out of date, out of fashion, out-dated, pass÷, out, dead, outmoded, old, antiquated, antediluvian, ancient, superannuated, dated, archaic, old-fashioned, d÷mod÷; unused, disused, discarded, superseded, extinct, Colloq old hat: The expression 'tickety-boo' is obsolete. He plays his 78-rpm records on an obsolete gramophone.
OBSTRUCT|12|v. 1 block, bar, check, prevent, stop (up), arrest, halt, clog, make impassable; bring to a standstill: The vein is obstructed by a large blood clot. A clogged drain is obstructing the water. 2 hamper, slow, impede, interfere with, retard, hinder, interrupt, delay, stay, stall: An overturned truck obstructed traffic on the motorway. 3 preclude, prevent, debar, block, prohibit, forbid, stop, stand in the way of: They are manoeuvring to obstruct her from taking over the company.
OCCASION|6|n. 1 time, moment, circumstance, incident, occurrence, opportunity, chance, opening, advantage: I took the occasion of the inquiry to leave town. 2 reason, cause, call, justification, ground(s), warrant, provocation, prompting, impulse, stimulus, incitement, inducement: Tom gave David no occasion to doubt his honesty. 3 event, function, happening, affair, observance, commemoration, ceremony, celebration, gala, party,: Grandpapa's ninetieth birthday was a great occasion. This hall is saved for important occasions. 4 on occasion. See occasionally, below. --v. 5 give rise to, bring about, cause, bring on, effect, prompt, provoke, evoke, call forth, elicit, call up, induce, impel, create, generate, engender, produce, make (for): An increase in the inflation rate occasions a decrease in the value of money.
OCCUPANT|8|n. resident, inhabitant, occupier, tenant, lessee, leaseholder, renter, owner, householder, indweller, dweller, denizen, lodger, roomer, boarder; addressee; incumbent: The occupant of the flat upstairs is rarely home.
OFFENDER|7|n. criminal, malefactor, lawbreaker, outlaw, wrongdoer, culprit, miscreant, transgressor, sinner, evil-doer, Slang crook: I don't know if they apprehended the offender.
OFFERING|3|n. sacrifice, oblation, contribution, donation, gift, present: They made offerings to the gods in order to propitiate them.
OFFICIAL|4|adj. 1 authorized, legitimate, lawful, legal, authentic, bona fide, proper, true, accredited, valid, documented, licensed, sanctioned, endorsed, certified, verified, recognized, accepted: I won't believe I've won till I hold the official notification in my own hands. 2 ceremonial, formal, solemn, ritualistic, ceremonious, pompous, stiff, proper, seemly, decorous: She has to make an acceptance speech at the official dinner. --n. 3 See officer, 1, above.
OFFSHOOT|2|n. 1 branch, spur; shoot, limb, bough, twig, stem, appendage, sucker, sprout, sprig, tendril, scion: There is an offshoot of this road that goes up the hill. The offshoots are trained to grow along the arms of the espalier. 2 descendant, relation, relative, kin, kindred, offspring, scion, heir: One offshoot of the family later emigrated to the United States. 3 outgrowth, development, branch, spin-off; by-product, derivative: An offshoot of the company manufactures optical instruments. The sale of gravel for concrete is an offshoot of our mining operations.
OINTMENT|10|n. unguent, balm, salve, emollient, embrocation, demulcent, pomade, pomatum, petrolatum; lotion, cream: A little ointment will keep the sore moist till it heals.
OMISSION|8|n. 1 non-inclusion, omitting, leaving out or off, excluding, eliminating, dropping, skipping; exclusion, exception, deletion, elimination, excision: The omission of your name from the list was a mistake. Allowing for inadvertent omissions, the inventory is complete. 2 failure, default, neglect, dereliction, oversight, shortcoming, negligence: She is being punished for her innocent omission in failing to notify the police while he is at liberty despite his deliberate commission of a crime.
ONCOMING|9|adj. 1 advancing, arriving, coming, nearing, approaching, onrushing, imminent: He swerved and just managed to avoid the oncoming lorry. --n. 2 onset, beginning, nearing, arrival, advance, approach: With the oncoming of spring, the birds returned.
ONESIDED|10|adj. 1 partial, biased, partisan, prejudiced, bigoted, unfair, unjust, inequitable, close-minded, narrow-minded, intolerant: His is a one-sided view of the problem. 2 lopsided, unbalanced, unequal, unequalized, uneven, disproportionate, Slang cock-eyed: The swelling on his left cheek made Tom's face look very one-sided. 3 unilateral, independent, exclusionary, exclusive: They made a one-sided decision to halt production of nuclear weapons.
ONLOOKER|10|n. spectator, observer, looker-on, eyewitness, witness, watcher, viewer; bystander, passer-by: She was merely an onlooker, not a participant. Onlookers reported that the driver had run away from the accident.
OPERABLE|7|adj. workable, practicable, serviceable, usable, functional, fit, operational, in working order or condition: Aircraft engines that rely on oxygen for burning fuel are not operable where the air is too thin.
OPERATOR|10|n. 1 (bus or taxi or train) driver; worker, operative, manipulator, practitioner: These operators are required to take safety courses. 2 director, administrator, manager, supervisor, superintendent: Shaughnessey is the operator of a roofing business in Tring. 3 machinator, faker, fraud, manipulator, manoeuvrer, Colloq finagler, wise guy, Slang smooth or slick operator, smoothie, wheeler-dealer, big-shot, big-time operator, Chiefly US and Canadian big wheel: Claude is a cunning operator who always gets what he goes after.
OPPONENT|6|n. antagonist, adversary, disputant, contestant, competitor, contender, rival, foe, enemy; the opposition: He may be my opponent in the chess competition, but we are the best of friends.
OPPOSING|3|adj. opposite, conflicting, contrary, antithetical, antagonistic, antipathetic, hostile, inimical, contrasting, rival, contradictory, incompatible, irreconcilable, dissident, discrepant: Those with opposing views will be heard from later.
OPPOSITE|6|adj. 1 facing, vis-å-vis, en face: The sniper was on the roof of the building opposite. 2 opposing, conflicting, contrary, contrasting, contradictory, antithetical, differing, different, divergent, diverse, antagonistic, inconsistent, irreconcilable: William and his wife hold diametrically opposite political views. --n. 3 reverse, converse, contrary, antithesis: Whatever you tell teenagers to do, their first reaction is to do the opposite.
OPTIONAL|10|adj. voluntary, discretionary or discretional, elective, facultative, free, spontaneous, uncoerced, unforced, non-compulsory, uncompulsory, non-mandatory, unmandatory, non-requisite, unrequisite: Life insurance is optional for those who have our hospitalization policy.
ORDINARY|12|adj. 1 usual, normal, expected, common, general, customary, routine, typical, habitual, accustomed, traditional, regular, everyday, familiar, set, humdrum: This wine is quite good for ordinary drinking. Just display ordinary good manners when you meet the queen. 2 common, conventional, modest, plain, simple, prosaic, homespun, commonplace, run-of-the-mill, everyday, average, unpretentious, workaday, mediocre, fair, passable, so so, undistinguished, unexceptional, unremarkable, uninspired, pedestrian, bourgeois, peasant, provincial, unrefined, Colloq Brit common or garden, US common-or-garden variety, garden-variety: They bought a rather ordinary house in an inferior neighbourhood. --n. 3 standard, norm, average, status quo, convention, expected: Saint-Gaudens' architectural designs are far from the ordinary. 4 out of the ordinary. extraordinary, unusual, uncommon, strange, unfamiliar, different, unexpected, unconventional, curious, eccentric, peculiar, rare, exceptional, original, singular, unique, odd, bizarre, weird, offbeat, outlandish, striking, quaint, picturesque: She was looking for a gift that was a little out of the ordinary, so I suggested a pet tarantula.
ORGANISM|11|n. living thing, structure, body; being, creature: It is the work of natural scientists to classify all kinds of organisms.
ORGANIZE|18|v. 1 structure, coordinate, systematize, systemize, order, arrange, sort (out), classify, categorize, codify, catalogue, group, tabulate, pigeon-hole, standardize: These files ought to be organized so that you can find something when you need it. 2 form, found, set up, establish, institute, start, begin, create, originate, initiate, put together, build, develop, US pull together: In 1969, we organized a company to publish reference books.
ORIGINAL|9|adj. 1 initial, first, earliest, primary, beginning, starting, basic: The original report made no mention of any missing jewellery. 2 native, indigenous, autochthonous, aboriginal, primordial, primeval, primitive: At first, we could find only slight traces of the original inhabitants. 3 master, actual, primary, authentic, true, genuine, real, basic; prototypic(al), archetypal, source: I have the original document and my lawyer has a copy. 4 creative, novel, innovative, unique, imaginative, unusual, inventive, ingenious; firsthand, fresh, underived, unprecedented: The film is based on a highly original story by Daphne du Maurier. The author has some original insights into Hamlet's relationship with Ophelia. --n. 5 prototype, archetype, source, model, pattern; master: The original hangs in the National Gallery. 6 eccentric, nonconformist, individualist, Colloq case, card, character, Brit queer fish: True to his reputation as an original, Wilde sauntered down the Strand with a lily in his hand.
ORNAMENT|10|n. 1 enhancement, embellishment, adornment, decoration, ornamentation, gingerbread, trimming, garnish, garnishment, frill, embroidery, beautification, accessory; frippery; knick-knack, furbelow, bauble, gewgaw, Slang US tchotchke: We spent a pleasant afternoon putting ornaments on the Christmas tree. The ornaments on the mantelpiece needed dusting. --v. 2 decorate, embellish, enhance, adorn, trim, garnish, embroider, elaborate, beautify, accessorize, deck (out), dress up: The cabinet is ornamented with ormolu fittings in the Empire style.
ORTHODOX|14|adj. conformist, accepted, authoritative, authorized, recognized, received, official, standard, prevailing, prevalent, common, regular, popular, ordinary, doctrinal, established, traditional, traditionalist, accustomed, conventional, customary, conservative: The orthodox view is that he was killed by an assassin acting on his own.
OUTBURST|10|n. outbreak, eruption, explosion, blow-up, flare-up, fulmination; upsurge, surge, outpouring, welling (forth), upwelling, outflow(ing), rush, flood, effusion, effluence or efflux; fit, access, attack, spasm, paroxysm, seizure, tantrum: Another outburst like that, young man, and you'll be sent home.
OUTGOING|6|adj. 1 departing, retiring, ex-, former, past, emeritus, leaving, withdrawing: It is our custom to honour the outgoing president with a banquet. 2 genial, friendly, amiable, cordial, warm, expansive, approachable, affable, accessible, amenable, easygoing, amicable, sociable, congenial, extrovert, familiar, informal, communicative: Because of his outgoing attitude, Keith gets along well with most people.
OUTLYING|8|adj. distant, far-off, far-flung, outer, outermost, out-of-the-way, remote, far-away, peripheral, furthest or farthest: In those days it took weeks for the news to reach the outlying parts of the empire.
OUTRIGHT|5|adj. 1 unqualified, total, unreserved, unrestricted, full, complete, unconditional, unequivocal, clear, direct, definite, unmistakable or unmistakeable: The duke is the outright owner of the property. 2 undisguised, unmitigated, utter, consummate, pure, out-and-out, all-out, sheer, absolute, stark, bald, thorough, arrant, thoroughgoing, through-and-through, downright, direct, definite, unmistakable or unmistakeable: Her outright refusal to provide further help was met with dismay. --adv. 3 directly, at once, immediately, instantaneously, instantly, then and there or there and then, straight or right away, on the spot, right off: One passenger was killed outright, the other died later in hospital. 4 completely, entirely, exactly, precisely, totally, in toto, utterly, baldly, starkly, consummately, purely, thoroughly, directly, unhesitatingly, quite, absolutely, explicitly, categorically, straightforwardly, plainly, openly, forthrightly, unequivocally, unambiguously, candidly: I wish that Henry wasn't so reticent and would say outright what he means. 5 unrestrictedly, unqualifiedly, unreservedly, unconditionally: The duke owns the property outright.
OUTSIDER|9|n. non-member, non-initiate, foreigner, alien, outlander, stranger, newcomer, guest, visitor, trespasser, interloper, intruder, squatter, invader, Colloq gatecrasher: The others always treated Peter as an outsider. Why do I feel an outsider in my own home?
OUTSMART|10|v. outwit, outfox, out-think, outmanoeuvre, outmanipulate, outplay, steal a march on, get the better or best of, trick, dupe, hoodwink, fool, deceive, hoax, gull, make a fool of; swindle, cheat, defraud, cozen, Colloq put one over on, pull a fast one on, take in, make a monkey (out) of, bamboozle, con, Brit nobble, Slang slip or put one or something over on (someone): 'I have been outsmarted by bigger fools than you!', Mr White shouted.
OUTWARDS|12|adv. outward, outside, away, out, without: The towns of the early twentieth century centred on the railway station and radiated outwards.
OUTWEIGH|8|v. overcome, outbalance, overbalance, overweigh, tip the scales, preponderate (over), surpass, prevail (over), override, take precedence (over), compensate (for), make up for: His feeling for his wife outweighed all else in his life.
OVERCOME|15|v. 1 beat, defeat, conquer, overpower, subdue, worst, best, triumph over, win (out) (over), prevail (over), overthrow, overwhelm, vanquish, get the better or best of, whip, drub, rout, break, subjugate, suppress, crush, master, Colloq lick: If we do not overcome these temptations, they will overcome us. The superior force easily overcame the tiny group of defenders. --adj. 2 beaten, defeated, overwhelmed, subdued, worsted, bested; affected, speechless, swept off one's feet, rendered helpless, overpowered, moved, influenced, at a loss (for words), Colloq bowled over: The victim's parents were overcome with grief when the casualty list was published. Colin was too overcome to speak at the award presentation.
OVERHANG|10|v. 1 jut (out), beetle, bulge (out), project (out), protrude, stick out, loom (out), extend (out), hang (out) over: The balcony overhangs the sea. 2 impend, threaten, menace, imperil, loom: His life was overhung by the threat of blackmail. --n. 3 ledge, projection, bulge, protrusion, extension: A swallow nested under the overhang of the roof.
OVERHAUL|9|v. 1 overtake, pass, gain on or upon, draw ahead of, catch up with, get ahead of, outstrip, outdistance, leave behind, lap: We overhauled the ketch and were beginning to close on the yawl when the squall hit us. 2 renovate, refurbish, recondition, rebuild, restore, repair, service, adjust, patch (up), mend, fix (up): The car engine needs to be thoroughly overhauled. --n. 3 reconditioning, overhauling, refurbishing, rebuilding, renovation, servicing, adjustment, mending, fixing (up): The overhaul of the die-stamping machine will require two months to complete.
OVERHEAD|10|adv. 1 (up) above, (up) in the air or sky, high up, on high, aloft, skyward: The aeroplanes passed overhead at dawn. --adj. 2 elevated, raised, upper: The crane travels on an overhead track. --n. 3 Brit overheads, US overhead. (basic or fixed) costs, operating cost(s), expense(s), outlay, disbursement(s), running cost(s), expenditure(s), maintenance, cost(s) of doing business: One way to increase profits is by reducing overheads.
OVERLOAD|12|v. 1 weigh down, burden, overburden, load (up), overtax, saddle with, tax, strain, impede, handicap, oppress, encumber, cumber, overcharge: They overloaded me with so much work that I'll never finish. --n. 2 surcharge, overcharge, overburden, dead weight, oppression, handicap, tax, load, encumbrance, impediment, hindrance: We had to hire extra people at Christmas to help deal with the overload.
OVERLOOK|13|v. 1 miss, slip up on, omit, neglect, slight, disregard, fail to notice, ignore, pass over, leave out, forget, Colloq pass up: You overlooked an error on the first page. 2 blink at, wink at, let go (by), let pass, let ride, turn a blind eye to, shut (one's) eyes to, pretend not to notice, take no notice of, ignore, disregard, forgive, pardon, excuse, permit, allow, forget about, write off, condone, make allowances (for), let bygones be bygones, gloss over: I shall overlook your slowness if you will work late to compensate for it. 3 front on (to), face, give upon, command or afford a view of, look out on or over, have as a vista or view: My room overlooks the lake.
OVERRATE|9|v. overvalue, make too much of, exaggerate the worth or value of, attach too much importance to, overprize, assess too highly: They insist that his value to the company is overrated and that he should be dismissed.
OVERSEAS|11|adv. abroad: Did you serve overseas during the war?
OVERSEER|9|n. superintendent, supervisor, manager, foreman, forewoman, superior, Colloq boss, chief, super, Brit gaffer, US straw boss, (head or chief) honcho: Simon is too hard a taskmaster to be overseer of that sensitive operation.
OVERTAKE|15|v. 1 catch (up with or to), reach, draw level or even with, overhaul, gain on or upon, move by or past, pass, leave behind, outstrip, outdistance: The express train overtakes the local one at Amersham. 2 come upon, seize, catch (unprepared), befall, strike, hit, overwhelm: The weaknesses of old age overtook the actress before she could finish writing her memoirs.
OVERTONE|11|n. undertone, connotation, hint, suggestion, innuendo, insinuation, intimation, indication, implication: Do I detect overtones of regret now that you are finally leaving?
OVERTURE|11|n. Often, overtures. approach, advance, offer, proposal, proposition, tender: While they were winning, they rejected all peace overtures.
OVERTURN|11|v. 1 turn over, knock down or over, tip over, capsize, up-end, upset, turn turtle, turn upside down, turn topsy-turvy, invert: The tanks overturned when they tried to drive past the huge concrete barriers. On his first day as a waiter, he overturned the soup in a guest's lap. 2 bring down, overthrow, throw over, upset, depose, unthrone, unseat, oust, eject: The dictatorship was overturned and the country returned to being a democratic republic. --n. 3 overturning, overthrow, unseating, ousting, toppling, fall, destruction, ruin, defeat, US ouster: Could the overturn of the present regime be effected without force of arms?
OVERWORK|18|v. 1 overexert, overstrain, overburden, oppress, overtax, overload, overuse: We were so overworked that the quality had to suffer. 2 slave (away), burn the midnight oil, lucubrate: She insisted on overworking in order to get the project finished on time. --n. 3 overexertion, overstrain, strain: I was ready to drop from overwork.
PAINLESS|8|adj. trouble-free, easy, simple, comfortable, effortless, Colloq easy as 1, 2, 3 or as ABC, easy as pie, a piece of cake, pushover, child's play, Slang cinch, no sweat: The procedure for assembling the bicycle is relatively painless.
PALATIAL|10|adj. luxurious, de luxe, magnificent, splendid, stately, sumptuous, opulent, majestic, magnificent, grand, elegant, palatine, Slang posh, ritzy, swanky, classy: After winning the pools, they moved into a palatial house in Belgravia.
PAMPHLET|17|n. booklet, brochure, tract, essay, folder, leaflet, circular; handbill, bill, notice, bulletin, advertisement, hand-out, ad, Brit advert, US flyer, throw-away: He was arrested for printing a pamphlet that denounced the government's repression of free speech. Yesterday we received our sixteenth pamphlet promoting replacement windows.
PARADISE|11|n. 1 heaven, City of God, Zion, Elysium, Elysian Fields, happy hunting-grounds, Abraham's bosom, heavenly kingdom, Promised Land, Celestial City, New Jerusalem, Avalon, Valhalla, Hesperides, Isles or Islands of the Blessed, seventh heaven: People all have their own ideas of paradise, but everyone agrees it's a nice place to be. 2 heaven on earth, (Garden of) Eden, (land of) Goshen, Utopia, Shangri-La, Land of Beulah: Early settlers of California thought it a paradise. 3 bliss, happiness, rapture, heaven, delight, blessedness, ecstasy, seventh heaven, joy, dreamland, nirvana: Being with you has been sheer paradise.
PARALLEL|8|adj. 1 similar, corresponding, congruent, analogous, analogic(al), correspondent, like, matching, homologous, coordinate, equivalent, coequal, proportional, proportionate, pari passu, mutatis mutandis, in proportion, uniform; contemporary or cotemporary, contemporaneous or cotemporaneous: The situation in Northern Ireland could be compared with a parallel situation in Lebanon. --n. 2 analogue, match, homologue, equivalent, complement, counterpart, equal, coequal: Campbell found many parallels among the legendary heroes of other cultures. 3 analogy, parallelism, equivalence, complementarity, relationship, kinship, correspondence, resemblance, likeness, similarity, symmetry, equality, coequality, parity, correlation; proportion, balance, equiponderance, equipoise, counterbalance, offset: One can draw parallels between the human arm, the fish's fin, and the bird's wing. By way of parallel, consider the flood in the Bible and that in the Gilgamesh epic. --v. 4 correspond to or with, match, equate to or with, be likened to, correlate to or with, compare with or to, imitate, repeat, echo, iterate, reiterate, duplicate, follow, agree with; keep pace with, conform (to), balance, set off, offset, even off or up, be accompanied by, coincide with, Colloq jibe with: In many respects, your attitudes towards life parallel mine when I was your age. A decrease in the rate of inflation supposedly parallels a rise in interest rates.
PARALYSE|13|v. 1 immobilize, inactivate, deactivate, transfix; halt, stop: The stroke paralysed his entire left side. As the thing approached, the children became paralysed by fear. 2 deaden, numb, freeze, anaesthetize, benumb, render insensible: This injection will paralyse your thumb so that we can operate on it. 3 disable, cripple, incapacitate, disenable: His left leg was paralysed in the accident.
PARAMOUR|12|n. lover, love, inamorato or inamorata, amorist, mistress, gigolo, concubine, cicisbeo, kept woman, Colloq flame, sugar-daddy, US POSSLQ (= 'Person of the Opposite Sex Sharing Living Quarters'), Slang fancy man or woman: At eighty, she liked to reminisce about her many paramours.
PAROXYSM|22|n. fit, convulsion, spasm, throe, seizure, spell, outburst, eruption, explosion, Colloq flare-up: At the sight of George dressed as Madame Pompadour Melissa rolled on the floor in a paroxysm of hysterical laughter.
PARTISAN|10|n. 1 partizan, devotee, follower, supporter, adherent, backer, champion, enthusiast, fan, zealot, fanatic, Chiefly US and Canadian booster, Colloq US rooter: He has long been a partisan of surrealism. 2 guerrilla or guerilla, freedom fighter, underground or resistance fighter, irregular: During the war the Yugoslav partisans were led by Marshal Tito. --adj. 3 one-sided, factional, biased, tendentious, sectarian, opinionated, partial, bigoted, prejudiced, parochial, myopic, short-sighted, near-sighted, narrow, narrow-minded, limited: She refuses to become involved in partisan politics. 4 guerrilla or guerilla, freedom, underground, resistance, irregular: They were both members of the Maquis, the French partisan group who fought against the Nazis.
PASSABLE|5|adj. 1 satisfactory, acceptable, tolerable, all right, adequate, admissible, allowable, presentable, average, fair (enough), fair to middling, fairly good, middling, not bad, unexceptional, sufficient, indifferent, Colloq OK or okay, so so: I thought the play passable, but not up to his usual standard. 2 traversable, navigable, open, unobstructed, unblocked: The channel is passable till October, when the river freezes over.
PASSWORD|12|n. watchword, shibboleth, open sesame, countersign: If you don't know the password, the guard won't let you in.
PASTORAL|10|adj. 1 bucolic, idyllic, Edenic, innocent, simple, tranquil, serene, quiet, restful, peaceful, peaceable, placid, pacific, harmonious, simple, uncomplicated, Literary Arcadian, georgic: After a week in those pastoral surroundings, she felt inspired. Theocritus is noted for his pastoral poetry. 2 country, rural, rustic, provincial, farming, agricultural, agrarian; humble: He has chosen a pastoral setting for the play, which contrasts sharply with the emotional intensity of the characters. 3 clerical, ministerial, ecclesiastic(al), church(ly): Our vicar discharges his pastoral duties with energy and sincerity. --n. 4 idyll, eclogue, georgic: Flambeau did these marvellous engravings for a book of pastorals.
PATHETIC|10|adj. 1 moving, stirring, affecting, affective, touching, emotional, emotive, poignant, tragic, heart-rending, heart-breaking, pitiful, pitiable, piteous, plaintive, wretched, miserable, sorrowful, grievous, sad, doleful, dolorous, mournful, woeful, lamentable: The boat people told a pathetic tale of the hardship of weeks in the open sea. 2 meagre, paltry, feeble, inadequate, poor, petty, puny, sorry, piddling, Colloq measly, Slang crummy: He made a pathetic effort to pull himself together. A return of three per cent a year is pathetic.
PATIENCE|12|n. 1 tolerance, forbearance, restraint, toleration, sufferance, leniency, submission, resignation, self-control, imperturbability, even temper, unflappability, composure, calmness, serenity, equanimity: Many parents lose their patience when dealing with children. 2 diligence, tenacity, doggedness, indefatigability, endurance, assiduity, perseverance, constancy, persistence, steadfastness, pertinacity, determination, resolve, resolution, firmness, stoicism, fortitude, Colloq US stick-to-it-iveness: Where do you get the patience to wait in those long queues?
PEACEFUL|15|adj. 1 peaceable, serene, placid, calm, quiet, quiescent, gentle, restful, tranquil, untroubled, undisturbed, unruffled: After our week-end guests left, the house was again peaceful. 2 See peaceable, 2, above.
PEDANTIC|13|adj. 1 didactic, doctrinaire, donnish, pedagogic, pedantical, preachy, professorial, bookish, ostentatious, pretentious, sententious, pompous, vain, stuffy, stilted, stiff, dry: A pedantic approach to marketing may be all right in the classroom, but it doesn't sell products. 2 perfectionist, scrupulous, overscrupulous, finicky or finical, fussy, punctilious, fastidious, meticulous, exact, chop-logic, hair-splitting, quibbling, Colloq nit-picking: His secretary left because of his pedantic criticisms of her work.
PEDIGREE|10|n. (line of) descent, ancestry, genealogy, blood, bloodline, line, extraction, lineage, stock, heritage, family, derivation, birth, parentage, strain, roots: His pedigree is all right, but does he have brains as well as money?
PEERLESS|6|adj. without equal, unequalled, matchless, unmatched, unrivalled, unique, incomparable, beyond compare, unparalleled, nonpareil, inimitable, unexcelled, unsurpassed, superior, superb, excellent, supreme, superlative, finest, best, ne plus ultra, sovereign, consummate, pre-eminent, paramount: James's mother was a peerless beauty and the toast of her generation.
PELLMELL|8|adv. 1 helter-skelter, slapdash, rashly, feverishly, incautiously, confusedly, chaotically, wildly, impulsively, recklessly, slap-bang, impetuously, hastily, hurriedly, precipitately, spontaneously: The ice-cream vendor pedalled down the street with the children running pell-mell after him. --adj. 2 helter-skelter, slapdash, rash, feverish, incautious, confused, disordered, disorderly, disorganized, wild, mad, chaotic, tumultuous, panicky, impulsive, reckless, precipitate, impetuous, hasty, hurried: Quick action by the soldiers was responsible for the pell-mell rout of the attackers. --n. 3 confusion, disorder, chaos, tumult, pandemonium, turmoil, mél÷e or melee, furore or US furor, commotion, bedlam, brouhaha, hubbub, excitement: In the pell-mell that followed, several bystanders were injured.
PENALIZE|19|v. punish, discipline, mulct, amerce, fine, handicap, impose or invoke a penalty against, impose a penalty on, Formal amerce; sentence: This judge penalizes speeders mercilessly.
PENCHANT|8|n. inclination, bent, proclivity, leaning, bias, predisposition, predilection, partiality, proneness, propensity, tendency, affinity, liking, preference, fondness, taste: Agnes has a penchant for tennis and for men who play tennis.
PENITENT|10|adj. contrite, regretful, repentant, remorseful, sorrowful, sorry, rueful, grief-stricken, sad, shame-faced, self-reproachful, apologetic, conscience-stricken: He said that he was truly penitent for all the heinous crimes of his youth.
PERCEIVE|15|v. 1 see, make out, discern, catch sight of, glimpse, spot, espy, apprehend, take in, notice, note, discover, descry, observe, mark, remark, identify, distinguish, detect: I perceived his hesitation when a solo flight was suggested. She perceived a strange odour emanating from the cupboard. 2 appreciate, grasp, feel, sense, apprehend, understand, gather, comprehend, deduce, infer, figure out, ascertain, determine, conclude, decipher, Colloq dig, catch on: She perceived that he was going to renege on his promise to take her to the Riviera. 3 Often, perceive of. regard, view, look on, consider, contemplate, judge, deem, believe, think: Calthorpe perceives of himself as a great actor, but he is dreadful. This gesture is often perceived as threatening.
PERIODIC|13|adj. periodical, intermittent, regular, recurrent, repetitive, iterative, cyclic(al), repeated; episodic, sporadic, occasional: We called in the plumber because of the periodic hammering in the pipes. The next periodic return of Halley's comet is expected in 2061-62.
PERMEATE|12|v. imbue, diffuse, penetrate, pervade, infiltrate, enter, spread through(out), saturate, seep through(out), percolate through, soak through: He felt the warmth permeate every limb. Greed seemed to permeate every level of society.
PERVERSE|13|adj. 1 wrong, wrong-headed, awry, contrary, wayward, incorrect, irregular, unfair, improper, contradictory: It was most perverse of you to change your mind after all the arrangements had been made. 2 cantankerous, testy, curmudgeonly, churlish, crusty, bad-tempered, petulant, captious, cross, cross-grained, peevish, waspish, snappish, bilious, splenetic, fractious, ill-tempered, quarrelsome, irascible, sullen, contentious, touchy, obstreperous, crabby, crabbed, irritable, surly, Colloq grouchy, Brit stroppy, US and Canadian cranky: With everything going wrong, Catherine feels particularly perverse today. 3 stubborn, self-willed, wrong-headed, intractable, wilful, obdurate, obstinate, pigheaded, adamant, inflexible, unbending, refractory, unyielding: I refuse to give in to a perverse child just because he has a tantrum.
PETEROUT|10|v. diminish, evaporate, wane, come to nothing or naught or US also nought, die out, disappear, fail, fade (out or away), dwindle (into nothing), run out, give out, flag, melt away: The path petered out after a mile or so and they realized that they had lost their bearings.
PETITION|10|n. 1 request, application, solicitation, suit, entreaty, supplication, plea, appeal: An anti-pollution petition, signed by thousands of people, was delivered to the Department of the Environment. --v. 2 request, ask, apply to, apply for, solicit, sue, call upon, entreat, supplicate, plead, appeal (to), appeal (for), beseech, implore, importune, Rare obsecrate: The shopkeepers petitioned the council for better police protection.
PETULANT|10|adj. peevish, pettish, impatient, ill-humoured, testy, waspish, irascible, choleric, cross, captious, ill-tempered, bad-tempered, splenetic, moody, sour, bilious, crabby, crabbed, irritable, huffish, huffy, perverse, snappish, crotchety, cantankerous, curmudgeonly, grouchy, grumpy: With a petulant gesture she hurled the rose away.
PHARMACY|20|n. 1 dispensary, Rather formal or old-fashioned apothecary, Brit chemist's (shop), US and Canadian drugstore, druggist's: Stop off at the pharmacy and get me something for this headache, please. 2 pharmaceutics, pharmacopoeia: Research has vastly expanded modern pharmacy.
PHYSICAL|18|adj. bodily, corporeal, corporal, fleshly, incarnate, carnal, mortal, earthly, natural, somatic; material, tangible, palpable, real, actual, true, concrete, manifest, solid: Curtis doesn't have the physical strength to lift that weight. As a chemist, James deals with the physical, not the spiritual universe.
PHYSIQUE|14|n. build, figure, body, frame, shape, bodily structure, form, Slang chassis, US bod, built: She has the physique of an Amazon but the disposition of a lamb.
PIERCING|9|adj. 1 strident, shrill, harsh, ear-splitting, ear-shattering, high-pitched, screaming, shrieking, screeching, loud, blaring: The piercing sound of the police siren made me sit bolt-upright in bed. 2 probing, searching, penetrating, sharp, keen; arresting, gripping, spellbinding, enthralling, fascinating, entrancing: I was completely transfixed by her piercing green eyes. 3 penetrating, icy, frosty, frigid, chilling, freezing, cold, numbing, keen, wintry, arctic, raw, bitter, fierce, biting, nipping, nippy: Shivering in that piercing wind I thought I'd never be warm again. 4 stabbing, shooting, excruciating, exquisite, acute, sharp, severe, agonizing, fierce, intense, painful, racking: I suddenly felt a piercing pain in my left ear.
PIPELINE|12|n. 1 pipe, tube, duct, hose, line, main, conduit, passage, conveyor, channel: Pipelines carry gas from the North Sea throughout Britain. Very little information was flowing through the pipeline from Beirut. 2 in the pipeline. on the way, under way, in the offing, ready, imminent, coming, Colloq in the works, cooking, US in work: They said that the contract was in the pipeline and should arrive soon.
PITIABLE|7|adj. See piteous, above.
PITTANCE|10|n. mite, shoestring, Slang peanuts, chicken-feed, small potatoes: The miserable pittance that she receives does not even cover the necessities of life. He's trying to run that business on a pittance.
PLATFORM|15|n. 1 stand, dais, stage, podium, rostrum: After the introduction, the speaker mounted the platform. 2 policy, party line, principle(s), tenet(s), programme, plank: The main elements of our platform will be revealed at the party conference.
PLATONIC|12|adj. non-physical, asexual, non-sexual, celibate, chaste, dispassionate, detached, spiritual, ideal, intellectual: Some say that their relationship has not always been purely platonic.
PLAYMATE|15|n. playfellow, friend, comrade, Colloq pal, chum, US and Canadian buddy: Some of Molly's playmates are asking if she can come out to play.
PLEBEIAN|12|adj. 1 proletarian, working-class, blue-collar, low-class, lower-class, lowly, low-born, common, mean, humble, inferior, peasant-like, Colloq non-U: What would you expect from someone with such a plebeian background? 2 unrefined, coarse, vulgar, ignoble, lowbrow, unpolished, uncouth, crass, brutish, gauche, provincial, rustic, popular, commonplace, undistinguished: The entertainment caters to the most plebeian tastes. --n. 3 proletarian, common man or woman, commoner, man or woman in the street, (any or every) Tom, Dick, or Harry, Brit man or woman on the Clapham omnibus, Colloq pleb, prole: This art exhibition is not going to mean very much to the plebeians.
POIGNANT|11|adj. 1 distressing, upsetting, agonizing, grievous, painful, woeful, melancholy, blue, sad, sorrowful, tragic, disastrous, heart-rending, heart-breaking, excruciating, bitter, pathetic, pitiable, piteous, pitiful, miserable, moving, touching: The biography also covers the poignant early years, spent largely in orphanages and foster homes. 2 keen, acute, intense, incisive, sharp, stinging, pointed, piercing, penetrating, barbed, cutting, caustic, acid, acerbic, bitter, biting, mordant, sarcastic, sardonic, severe: The headmaster's poignant remarks about honesty and loyalty really hurt. 3 sincere, earnest, heartfelt, deep, profound, dramatic, deeply felt, stirring, moving, touching, emotional: The reunion of the little boy and his dog was the most poignant moment in the film.
POLISHED|9|adj. 1 accomplished, adept, proficient, expert, fine, outstanding, skilful, gifted, masterful, masterly, virtuoso, excellent, superior, superb, superlative; flawless, faultless, perfect, impeccable: Edna is quite a polished cellist. She gave a polished performance. 2 refined, elegant, cultivated, graceful, debonair, sophisticated, urbane, soign÷(e), courtly, genteel, cultured, civilized, well-bred, well-mannered, polite: Under her guidance, James has become a polished gentleman.
POLITICS|12|n. 1 public affairs, political science, civics, civil affairs, government, statecraft, diplomacy, statesmanship: Hume viewed politics as people united in society and dependent on each other. 2 manoeuvring, manipulation, wirepulling, machination: Office politics are such that they wouldn't dare dismiss that department head.
POPULACE|14|n. people, masses, commonalty, (general) public, commoners, multitude, hoi polloi, crowd, throng, rabble, peasantry, proletariat, common folk, rank and file, working class, bourgeoisie, mob, Derogatory great unwashed, riff-raff, rabble, canaille, ragtag and bobtail: Some MPs act on behalf of their own constituencies rather than the populace at large.
POPULATE|12|v. colonize, settle, people, occupy; inhabit, dwell in, reside in, live in: Shiploads of families braved the voyage to populate the New World.
POPULOUS|9|adj. crowded, (heavily) populated, peopled, teeming, thronged, crawling, swarming, jammed, jam-packed, packed: The populous cities contrast with the sparsely inhabited rural areas.
PORTRAIT|10|n. picture, likeness, image,sketch, rendering, vignette; representation, description, profile, thumbnail sketch, portrayal, picturization, depiction; account, story, characterization, study, record, file, dossier: We have the culprit's portrait in our rogues' gallery. We need a more accurate portrait of the kidnapper.
POSITION|10|n. 1 posture, attitude, stance, pose; disposition, arrangement, disposal: Once in a while, he would change his position so that he faced the sun. With the pieces in this position the chess game is a draw. 2 site, placement, situation, whereabouts, placing, emplacement, location: Those bearings put his present position about 20 miles west of CÁdiz. 3 viewpoint, point of view, outlook, attitude, angle, slant, stance, stand, opinion, inclination, leaning, bent, sentiment, feeling, way of thinking: My solicitor is pessimistic about my position in this case. 4 status, condition, state, circumstances, situation: Our financial position vis-å-vis investment in gilt bonds has changed. 5 class, caste, place, rank, standing, station, status, importance: They insist on knowing the social position of the girl's family. 6 job, occupation, situation, post, office, function, appointment, capacity, place, role, Colloq billet, berth, Australian possie or possy My mother's position as managing director had nothing to do with my getting a promotion. 7 hypothesis, thesis, principle, contention, assertion, predication, belief, proposition, postulate: His position is based on the implications of the third law of thermodynamics. --v. 8 put, place, situate, site, set, fix, settle, dispose, arrange: The pointer is again positioned at zero. Position your forces along this ridge and stay on full alert. 9 place, locate, establish, determine, fix, localize: The scientists positioned the seismic activity as being along the San Andreas fault.
POSITIVE|13|adj. 1 sure, certain, definite, unequivocal, categorical, absolute, unqualified, unambiguous, unmistakable or unmistakeable, clear-cut, clear, explicit, express, decisive, indisputable, indubitable, unquestionable, unquestioned, incontestable, uncontested, undeniable, reliable, persuasive, convincing, irrefutable: The police have positive evidence that the men are innocent of any crime. Spending this evening with you has been a positive delight. 2 definitive, emphatic, decided, forceful, firm, peremptory, definite: He gave a positive denial when asked if he had agreed to let the hostages go. She made a positive commitment to meet me here at noon. 3 sure, certain, confident, convinced, satisfied: Are you positive that the last train is at midnight? 4 beneficial, favourable, complimentary, productive, useful: I heard many positive things about the way she handled herself at the interview. 5 overconfident, dogmatic, doctrinaire, pontifical, opinionated, pigheaded, stubborn, obstinate, obdurate, arbitrary, overweening, arrogant, assertive, dictatorial, despotic, imperious, Rare thetic(al): His problem is that he is quite positive about things that simply are not so. 6 practical, realistic, utilitarian, productive, functional, pragmatic(al), realistic, matter-of-fact, Colloq hard-nosed: They have taken a positive approach to studying the economics of small businesses. 7 encouraging, supportive, constructive, reassuring, enthusiastic, favourable, affirmative, yes, confirming: Our plan to buy out the company has received a positive reaction from our bankers. Asked if they would buy our product, businessmen gave a positive response. 8 auspicious, promising, propitious, encouraging; optimistic, favourable, cheerful, confident; Colloq bullish, upbeat: In the long run, the picture for home-owners looks positive. It pays to maintain a positive outlook and not get depressed. 9 complete, utter, total, perfect, out-and-out, consummate, unmitigated, thorough, thoroughgoing; egregio...
POSSIBLE|5|adj. 1 feasible, plausible, imaginable, conceivable, thinkable, credible, tenable, reasonable, admissible: It is remotely possible, though improbable, that she committed the crime. 2 realizable, practicable, workable, practical, doable, achievable, attainable, reachable, accomplishable, viable, Colloq on: In the present state of the art, a fully interactive computer, operating in real time, is still not possible.
POSSIBLY|13|adv. 1 maybe, perhaps, God willing, Deo volente, if possible, Archaic or literary perchance, mayhap, peradventure: She is possibly the best person for the job. 2 in any way, under any circumstances, by any chance, by any means, at all: Could you possibly help me find my contact lens? The weather forecast couldn't possibly be correct.
POSTPONE|12|v. delay, adjourn, defer, keep in abeyance, put off or aside, lay aside, suspend, shelve, put or keep on ice, temporize, dally, Colloq put on the back burner, US table: We ought to postpone further discussion till we have the facts.
POWERFUL|16|adj. 1 potent, strong, mighty, vigorous, robust, energetic, sturdy, stalwart, tough, resilient, dynamic: Leslie has a powerful physique. The cities of the Hanseatic League had powerful economies. 2 influential, strong, compelling, forceful, potent, substantial, weighty, authoritative, effective; important, impressive, telling, effectual, formidable, persuasive: Powerful arguments have been brought to bear against taking such action. She has many powerful friends. 3 strong, potent; intense, substantial, great, high: The drug is too powerful to be taken regularly. A powerful electrical charge was sent through the wire to test the connection.
PRACTICE|14|n. 1 custom, wont, habit, routine, convention, tradition, rule, procedure, usage, mode, style, way, modus operandi, technique or technic, Formal praxis, Colloq MO (= 'modus operandi'): She makes a practice of swimming for an hour every day. It is our practice to get patients out of bed as soon as possible after surgery. 2 exercise, discipline, drill, practising, repetition, rehearsal, training, preparation; workout, warm-up; application, study: She needs more practice on the beginner's slope before going down the main piste. 3 pursuit, exercise, work, profession, career, vocation, conduct; business, office: He genuinely enjoys the practice of law. I heard of a veterinary practice for sale in Yorkshire. 4 in practice. practically, actually, day-to-day, realistically, in real life: In practice no one would ever treat an injury the way this book recommends. 5 out of practice. inexperienced, unpractised, unaccustomed, rusty: I once played a good game of chess, but I'm out of practice now.
PREACHER|8|n. minister, evangelist, clergyman, clergywoman, cleric, ecclesiastic, reverend, divine, Colloq tub-thumper: He studied for many years to become a preacher.
PREAMBLE|9|n. introduction, foreword, prologue, preface, Formal proem, prolegomenon, exordium: As a preamble to today's proceedings, I should like to welcome our honoured guests.
PRECINCT|10|n. 1 Usually, precincts. area, territory, region, province, environs, purlieus, borders, bounds, confines: Does he have any authority outside the precincts of the city? 2 sphere, neighbourhood, zone, sector, section, quarter, district, locale: In some US cities, the area covered by a police station is called a precinct.
PREGNANT|11|adj. 1 gravid, parturient, expectant, (heavy) with child, enceinte, Colloq expecting, in a family way, Brit preggers, Slang having a bun in the oven, Brit in the (pudding) club, up the spout: Her twins are only seven months old and now she's pregnant again. 2 charged, fraught, loaded, weighty, significant, meaningful, suggestive, eloquent, expressive, pointed: Although she said nothing, her smile was pregnant with meaning. 3 fruitful, teeming, fertile, fecund, rich, abounding, replete, productive: My mind was so pregnant with ideas that I couldn't wait to get down to work.
PREPARED|13|adj. 1 ready, set, advance, prearranged, planned: We have six prepared questions for the interview. 2 treated, processed, modified, changed: Using an etching needle, incise the lines on the prepared surface of the steel plate. 3 willing, disposed, predisposed, able, inclined, of a mind; ready, (all) set: Are you prepared to apologize? 4 oven-ready, microwave-ready, microwavable, instant, convenience, ready-to-eat, ready-to-serve, precooked, ready-made: He lives alone and usually buys prepared dinners that just need reheating.
PRESENCE|12|n. 1 proximity, nearness, closeness, adjacency, vicinity, Formal propinquity: The presence of a hospital near her home made Aunt Mary feel more secure. 2 attendance, company, companionship, society, association, existence, manifestation, manifestness, being: The Queen honoured us by her presence at the unveiling of the plaque. 3 poise, self-assurance, bearing, self-possession, confidence, mien, carriage, comportment, deportment, air, personality, aspect, aura, appearance: When Geoffrey entered, his presence created quite a stir. 4 spirit, wraith, spectre, shade: I had the vague but pervading sense that a unidentifiable presence was with me in the empty room. 5 presence of mind. aplomb, sophistication, coolness, cool-headedness, composure, imperturbability, phlegm, sang-froid, self-possession, self-assurance, calm, equanimity, level-headedness, quick-wittedness, alertness, Colloq cool: With great presence of mind, Grainger walked up to the man and took the gun from him.
PRESERVE|13|v. 1 keep safe, protect, guard, take care of, care for, safeguard, watch over, shield, shelter, defend, spare: What can we do to preserve ourselves from this terrible pestilence? May God preserve me, I never expected to see you again! 2 keep (up), maintain, conserve, spare, perpetuate; continue, support, sustain, save: We developed a technique to preserve antique furniture. The sea preserves much of the heat it absorbs in the summer. It is difficult to preserve one's sanity in this madhouse. 3 conserve, put up, pickle, cure, smoke, kipper, salt, corn, marinate, can, freeze, freeze-dry, refrigerate, dry, dehydrate, vacuum-pack; embalm, mummify: The berries were preserved by bottling and freezing. Some of the remains were preserved for hundreds of years. --n. 4 Often, preserves. conserve(s), jam, jelly, confiture, marmalade: Susan likes thick toast with butter and preserves for tea. 5 (game) reserve, reservation, sanctuary, Brit park: No hunting is allowed in this preserve.
PRESSURE|8|n. 1 force, compression; weight, power, strength: The air pressure in your tyres is low. The pressure of the water burst the pipe. 2 compression, pressing, squeezing, compressing, tension, stress, crushing: The pressure of a tourniquet has to be loosened now and then. 3 affliction, oppression, press, weight, burden, load, albatross, strain, stress, urgency, demands, exigency or exigencies, vexation, distress, trouble(s), adversity, difficulty or difficulties, straits, constraint(s), problem(s): Pressure of work prevents me from taking any time away from the office. When interest rates increase, we all feel financial pressure. 4 influence, power, sway, constraint, insistence, coercion, intimidation, arm-twisting; inducement, persuasion, urging, pressing: Without more pressure from local residents, the roadworks will not be completed in time. --v. 5 persuade, influence; prevail upon or on, press, urge, sway, intimidate, bring pressure to bear (on), apply pressure (on or to), coerce, force, compel, constrain, require, demand, make, insist upon or on, Brit pressurize, Colloq twist (someone's) arm, lean on, turn the heat on, Slang put the screws on or to: They pressured him to take the assignment in New Zealand.
PRETENCE|12|n. 1 show, display, pretension, ostentation, airs, front, faúade, appearance, make-believe, fiction, hypocrisy, fakery, faking, feigning, humbuggery, humbug, deception, artifice, pretext, posturing, pretentiousness, pretending, camouflage, cover-up: Her charming manner was all pretence, for in reality she despised him. 2 hoax, humbug, artifice, pretext, sham, show, pose, faúade, front, cover-up, cover, cloak, veil, mask, masquerade, disguise, guise, deception, ruse, dodge, blind, fabrication, invention, fiction, story, fable, make-believe, fairy tale, figment, falsification, impression: His loyalty was a pretence under which he carried on many liaisons. 3 excuse, pretext, pretension: They would ring for the butler on the slightest pretence, just to impress us.
PREVIOUS|10|adj. 1 former, prior, past, earlier, one-time, foregoing, sometime, erstwhile, preceding, Literary quondam, Archaic whilom: A previous owner of the house filled in the fish-pond. 2 prior, former, foregoing, above, preceding, Formal antecedent, anterior, aforementioned, above-mentioned, before-mentioned, aforesaid, above-named: Please see the previous examples in the Foreword. 3 premature, untimely, too soon or early: Isn't putting up Christmas decorations in October being a bit previous? 4 previous to. previously to, before, prior to, preceding, anterior to, antecedent to: Previous to the advent of motor cars, we had traffic jams of horse-drawn vehicles.
PRIGGISH|6|adj. (ultra-)conservative, prim, demure, prudish, purist, puristic, pedantic, school-marmish, strait-laced, hidebound, stiff-necked, puritanical, conformist, (Mrs) Grundyish, punctilious, formal, formalistic, strict, severe, fastidious, fussy, particular; precious, pr÷cieux or pr÷cieuse, niminy-piminy, over-nice, Colloq stick-in-the-mud, goody-goody, prissy, old-maidish, stuffed-shirt, stuffy, uptight, nit-picking, Brit twee: Victorians were less priggish in their private behaviour than in their public image.
PRINCELY|15|adj. 1 lavish, bountiful, generous, liberal, ample, substantial, huge, enormous: They paid a princely sum for their stately home in Surrey. 2 lavish, magnificent, splendid, luxurious, majestic, royal, regal, sumptuous, superb, Colloq ritzy, swank(y), posh, plush: The hotel laid on princely accommodation for us with rooms overlooking the sea. 3 royal, noble, regal, sovereign, of royal or noble blood or rank: Who would have thought that our humble home would ever shelter a princely guest?
PRIORITY|13|n. precedence, precedency, primacy, urgency, immediacy, predominance, pre-eminence, preference, rank, superiority, prerogative, right, seniority, importance, weight, immediacy: The applications for aid will be processed in order of priority.
PROBABLE|9|adj. (most) likely, apt, (quite) possible, presumed, plausible, undoubted, indubitable, apparent, unquestionable, evident, ostensible, odds-on, feasible, believable, credible: The probable cause of the flooding was a blockage in the drains. It is probable that most medieval churches had paintings round the walls.
PROBABLY|17|adv. (very) likely, in all likelihood, in all probability, undoubtedly, doubtlessly, indubitably, unquestionably, presumably, quite, all things considered, to all intents and purposes, possibly, perhaps, Colloq as likely as not, quite: She is probably the best tennis player in the world at the moment.
PROCLAIM|14|v. 1 announce, advertise, circulate, declare, broadcast, pronounce, make known, bruit (about), trumpet, publish, promulgate, herald; profess, protest, enunciate, articulate: Edgar was proclaimed king. She proclaimed her innocence. 2 brand, accuse of being, stigmatize as, pronounce, rule, decree, characterize, report: She found herself proclaimed a traitor.
PROCURER|12|n. pander or panderer, pimp, White slaver, flesh-pedlar or US also flesh-peddler or flesh-pedler, Archaic whoremaster, bawd; madam, procuress: He became a procurer for the wealthy men in the village.
PRODIGAL|12|adj. 1 wasteful, extravagant, spendthrift, lavish, excessive, profligate, squandering, immoderate, intemperate, wanton, improvident, reckless: If the government were less prodigal, it would be possible to have a balanced budget. 2 generous, bountiful, copious, profuse, bounteous, lavish, liberal, luxuriant, sumptuous, abundant, abounding, rich, plentiful, plenteous, superabundant, thriving, swarming, teeming: He was prodigal of both compliments and criticism. --n. 3 wastrel, spendthrift, profligate, squanderer, waster, big spender: That prodigal went through his inheritance in less than a year.
PRODUCER|13|n. 1 maker, manufacturer, fabricator, processor, creator; grower, farmer: That company is the largest producer of microchips in the world. 2 (in Britain) director, auteur, impresario, regisseur; (in US and Canada) entrepreneur, (business or financial) manager, organizer, impresario: He was a producer of TV soap operas.
PROFOUND|14|adj. 1 deep, unfathomable, abstruse, recondite, arcane, esoteric, intricate, knotty, involved, tricky, inscrutable, indecipherable, cabbalistic, incomprehensible, obscure, subtle, occult, secret, cryptic, puzzling, enigmatic, mystifying, mysterious: Some aspects of the theory of thought are even too profound for many specialists. 2 learned, scholarly, intellectual, erudite, discerning, astute, sagacious, sage, wise, penetrating, sharp, keen, insightful, analytical, knowledgeable, informed, well-informed, well-read: Russell was one of the most profound thinkers of his day. 3 deep, great, intense, sincere; heartfelt, keen, acute, utter, extreme, overpowering, overwhelming: He gave a profound sigh and fell asleep at once. It is with profound regret that I must tender my resignation. 4 utter, complete, total, perfect, absolute, thorough, thoroughgoing, out-and-out, downright, consummate; awful, terrible: Her casual attitude stems from her profound lack of awareness of how important the work is. I was immediately struck by the profound silence in the house. Profound changes are under way.
PROGRESS|9|n. 1 (forward) movement, going forward, progression, advance, headway, advancement: Progress through the dense underbrush was very slow. 2 advancement, advance, promotion, improvement, betterment, elevation, rise, development, furtherance: Her progress in the company might have been impeded by the fact that she was a woman. 3 advancement, course, development, growth, expansion, increase, evolution, maturation, ripening, burgeoning or bourgeoning, amplification, enlargement, spread, extension, broadening, promotion, furtherance, advance, encouragement: Our publishing credo is that every book must contribute to the progress of culture or knowledge. 4 in progress. under way, ongoing, going on, happening, occurring, taking place, at work, in operation, being done, proceeding, Colloq in the works: Some of the plans for reorganization are already in progress. --v. 5 advance, move or go (forwards or onwards), proceed, continue, go or forge ahead, go or move along, make (one's) way, make headway, travel, go or push or press on: Throughout the 19th century wagon trains of pioneers progressed across the prairies to settle the American West. I haven't progressed far enough in my reading to say whether I like the book or not. 6 advance, improve, get well, get better, develop, grow, expand, increase, evolve, mature, ripen, burgeon or bourgeon, amplify, enlarge, spread, extend, broaden, rise, move up, upgrade: Sarah's condition progressed to the point where she could get out of bed. Christmas sales of the new toy are progressing nicely. In only ten years, Michael progressed to a directorship in the company.
PROHIBIT|15|v. 1 bar, ban, forbid, disallow, interdict, outlaw, taboo, debar, proscribe: Fishing without a permit is prohibited. 2 prevent, stop, preclude, rule out, obstruct, block, impede, hinder, hamper, inhibit, frustrate, foil, thwart, restrain, check: A turnstile prohibits entry through the exit doors.
PROLIFIC|15|adj. 1 fertile, fecund, productive, fruitful, abundant, copious, bountiful, bounteous, profuse, plentiful, plenteous, lush, rich, rife: The more perilous its natural survival, the more prolific a species is likely to be. 2 productive, creative, fertile: He is a prolific author, and has more than 200 novels to his credit.
PROMPTLY|17|adv. quickly, at once, straightaway or straight away, directly, right away, immediately, without delay or hesitation, unhesitatingly, swiftly, speedily, readily, instantly, instantaneously, punctually, expeditiously, with celerity, with alacrity, Colloq US and Canadian momentarily: If this bill is not paid promptly, we shall have to discontinue your credit arrangements.
PROPERLY|15|adv. 1 appropriately, fittingly, correctly, well, becomingly, suitably, politely, decently, decorously, nicely: If you cannot behave properly I shall have to ask you to leave. 2 duly, appropriately, well, suitably, rightly, correctly, aptly: Are they properly equipped for the rescue mission?
PROPERTY|15|n. 1 possessions, belongings, effects, gear, paraphernalia, chattels: All his worldly property fitted into the small Gladstone bag he carried everywhere. 2 assets, means, resources, holdings, capital (goods), fortune, riches, estate, worth: We look on all our shares, personal belongings, and real estate as part of our property. 3 land, acreage, realty, real estate or property: That property on the high street was recently sold to developers. 4 characteristic, attribute, quality, feature, trait, mark, hallmark, idiosyncrasy, peculiarity, oddity, quirk, Formal haecceity, quiddity: A property of iodine is that it changes directly from a solid to a vapour - and vice versa - without first liquefying.
PROPHECY|20|n. 1 forecasting, foretelling, prediction, fortune-telling, divination, soothsaying, augury, prognostication, crystal-gazing, Formal vaticination: The prophecy of future events lies outside the realm of science. 2 prediction, forecast, prognosis, revelation: Her prophecy warned of ice storms that would ravage the earth.
PROPHESY|18|v. 1 predict, foretell, forecast, forewarn, prognosticate, vaticinate: His father prophesied that he would come to no good if he quit college. 2 augur, foretell (of), presage, foreshadow, portend, bode, harbinger, herald, promise, vaticinate: The early disappearance of the swallows prophesies a long, cold winter.
PROPOSAL|12|n. 1 offer, presentation, bid, tender, proposition, recommendation, suggestion, Literary proffer: Her proposal was to provide the funding if we would do the work. 2 plan, scheme, outline, draft, design, layout; programme, proposition, project: The proposal for the new civic centre was rejected as too expensive.
PROPOUND|13|v. put or set forth or forward, propose, offer, proffer, suggest, postulate: It was she who first propounded the idea of a unified country.
PROSPECT|14|n. 1 view, scene, panorama, landscape, seascape, outlook, vista, sight, spectacle, perspective, aspect: The sitting-room window offered a splendid prospect of the sea and cliffs below. 2 anticipation, contemplation, outlook, promise, plan, design, intention, expectancy, expectation, thought, likelihood: The prospect of spending the Christmas holidays with your family is quite daunting. 3 Often, prospects. future, outlook, chance(s), hope(s), possibility or possibilities, likelihood, opportunity or opportunities: The prospects for her advancement are excellent. 4 in prospect. in sight or view, in the offing, on the horizon, in store, in the wind, projected, in store, likely, probable, possible, Brit on the cards, on the table, US in the cards: As a doctor, he has a number of opportunities in prospect. --v. 5 Often, prospect for. explore, search (for), look (for): In 1896, his grandfather went to the Klondike to prospect for gold.
PROTOCOL|12|n. 1 rule(s) or code(s) or standard(s) of behaviour or conduct, convention(s), custom(s), diplomacy, formality, formalities, form, etiquette, politesse, manners, practice, usage, authority: According to protocol, the lady stands at the right of the gentleman. Which protocol are you following, the British or the French? 2 treaty, pact, compact, covenant, agreement, concordat; memorandum, minute, note, draft, outline: The original protocol must be checked before the ministers attach their signatures.
PROTRUDE|11|v. stick out, jut (out), project, extend, poke out, stand out, thrust out or forward, start (from), exsert, Rare extrude; bulge, balloon, bag (out), belly (out); (of the eyes) pop, goggle, Colloq US bug (out): Only the very tops of the plants protruded from the snow.
PROVINCE|15|n. 1 territory, state, zone, region, quarter, area, district, domain, dependency or US also dependancy, division, section, district: Quebec is one of the administrative provinces of Canada. 2 country, territory, region, dominion, realm, strand, tract: During the war, those who escaped fled to distant provinces. 3 sphere or area (of responsibility), responsibility, bailiwick, concern, function, charge, business, field; Colloq thing, headache, worry: The payroll falls within the province of my department. 4 provinces. outlying districts, countryside, hinterland(s), Chiefly US exurbia, Slang US and Canadian boondocks, boonies, hicksville: Once a year, people flock into London from the provinces to do their Christmas shopping.
PRUDENCE|13|n. 1 discretion, wisdom, sagacity, judgement, discrimination, common sense, canniness, presence of mind, awareness, wariness, care, tact, carefulness, caution, cautiousness, circumspection, watchfulness, vigilance, heedfulness: You should proceed with prudence in this hazardous business. 2 planning, preparation, preparedness, foresightedness, forethought, foresight, providence, precaution, far-sightedness; economy, husbandry, thrift, (good or careful) management: Owing to the prudence of her investments, Clara had accumulated a substantial nest egg.
PRURIENT|10|adj. 1 libidinous, lecherous, lascivious, lewd, lubricious or lubricous, salacious, lustful, concupiscent, licentious, carnal, debauched, rakehell, sensual, randy, voluptuous, loose, goatish, ruttish, Literary Cyprian, Paphian, Archaic lickerish or liquorish, Slang horny, hot: The press takes a prurient interest in the private lives of famous people. 2 dirty, lewd, filthy, pornographic, smutty, obscene, foul, scurrilous, vile, indecent, gross, lurid, blue, bawdy, ribald, titillating, suggestive, coarse, vulgar, low, crude, Literary Fescennine: The police raid uncovered a store of prurient literature, films, and videos.
PUGILISM|13|n. boxing, prizefighting; the manly art of self-defence, fisticuffs; Colloq the boxing or fight game: His career in pugilism came to an abrupt end in the second minute of the third round.
PUGILIST|11|n. boxer, prizefighter, fighter, contender, contestant, battler, combatant, Colloq bruiser, scrapper, champ, Slang slugger, pug: The pugilists came out of their corners and at once started jabbing away at each other.
PUNCTUAL|12|adj. on time, timely, prompt, Colloq on the dot: Please be punctual, as I don't fancy waiting about in the street.
PUNCTURE|12|n. 1 hole, perforation, opening, leak; flat (tyre): I haven't the tools needed to patch the puncture in the tyre. 2 perforation, perforating, holing, puncturing, piercing, stabbing, punching: The puncture of the balloon means that we shall have to postpone our trip. --v. 3 perforate, hole, pierce, stab, penetrate, go through, prick, nick, rupture: An arrow punctured the side of the tent. 4 deflate, disillusion, bring up short, discourage, humble, dash, destroy, ruin: Any hopes I had of winning the marathon were punctured when I tripped and fell, spraining my ankle.
PUNITIVE|13|adj. chastening, castigatory, disciplinary, retributive, punitory, retaliatory, correctional: A punitive expedition was sent there to quell the colonists' uprising.
PUREBRED|13|adj. full-blooded, thoroughbred, pedigreed: We raise only pure-bred Angus cattle.
PUSHOVER|11|n. 1 sure thing, Colloq piece of cake, child's play, snap, cinch, picnic, walk-over, US breeze, Slang cinch, Brit doddle, US lead-pipe cinch: The Latin exam was a pushover. 2 Colloq walk-over, chump, soft touch, soft or easy mark, easy prey or game, Slang patsy, sucker, stooge, sap, Brit mug, US and Canadian milquetoast: I spotted him at once as a pushover for the find-the-lady con.
PUZZLING|5|adj. mystifying, enigmatic(al), bewildering, baffling, confounding, perplexing, confusing, ambiguous, contradictory, abstruse: It is a bit puzzling to see Catherine so often in the company of the husband she recently divorced.
QUANDARY|10|n. dilemma, predicament, difficulty, plight, cleft stick, uncertainty: The management is in a quandary: should it risk overstretching the company by making further capital investment, or should it risk being left behind by its competitors by playing safe?
QUANTITY|9|n. amount, extent, volume; sum, number, total; weight, measure: There seemed to be no limit to the quantity of gold in the mine. The person who most accurately guesses the quantity of beans in the jar wins a prize. What quantity of flour should I buy to make enough cakes for fifty people?
QUESTION|6|n. 1 query, inquiry or enquiry: I asked you a simple question, 'Where were you last night?', and I expect a civil answer. 2 problem, difficulty, confusion, doubt, dubiousness, uncertainty, query, mystery, puzzle: Is there some question about the qualifications of the new employee? 3 matter, issue, point, subject, topic, theme, proposition: Whether you stay is not the question. The question remains, How are you going to earn a living? 4 beyond (all or any) question. beyond (the shadow of) a doubt, without question, without a doubt, indubitably, undoubtedly, doubtlessly, definitely, certainly, assuredly: He is guilty beyond all question. 5 call in or into question. question, doubt, query, challenge, dispute, harbour or entertain or have doubts or suspicions about, suspect, cast doubt or suspicion on: I cannot see why he has called her loyalty into question. 6 in question. a under discussion or consideration: The person in question never worked for this company. b questionable, debatable, at issue, in doubt, doubtful, open to debate: Her honesty was never in question. 7 out of the question. unthinkable, impossible, absurd, ridiculous, preposterous, inconceivable, beyond consideration, insupportable: An increase in salary at this time is out of the question. 8 without question. See 4, above. --v. 9 ask, examine, interrogate, query, interview, sound out, quiz, Colloq pump, grill, Slang give (someone) the third degree: He was questioned for six hours as to his whereabouts. 10 call in or into question, doubt, query, mistrust, distrust, cast doubt upon, dispute, suspect: Investigators have long questioned the relationship between the banks and the drug barons.
QUIXOTIC|15|adj. idealistic, impractical, impracticable, unrealistic, unrealizable, visionary, romantic, fantastic, chimerical, fanciful, dreamlike, dreamy, nephelococcygeal, starry-eyed, optimistic, rash, absurd, mad, foolhardy, reckless, wild, preposterous, ridiculous: When he was young, he had a quixotic notion that he could improve the world.
RADIANCE|11|n. 1 radiancy, splendour, brightness, brilliance, resplendence, luminosity, luminousness, dazzle, sparkle, coruscation, scintillation, twinkle, effulgence, refulgence, incandescence, glow, phosphorescence, gleam, lustre, shimmer, shine: As Aladdin rubbed the ring, it began to glow with an inner radiance and then - suddenly - a genie appeared. 2 warmth, gladness, joy, pleasure, happiness, cheeriness, delight: It was good to see again the radiance of the family at Christmas dinner.
RAILLERY|9|n. banter, badinage, persiflage, repartee, frivolity, joking, jesting, chaffing, teasing, ridicule, Colloq kidding: You shouldn't get upset over what was nothing more than some good-natured raillery.
RAMBLING|9|adj. 1 discursive, roundabout, circuitous, tortuous, incoherent, diffuse, unsettled, disconnected, disjointed, disorganized, unorganized, illogical, maundering, aimless, confused, muddled, jumbled, scrambled, unintelligible, inarticulate, periphrastic, circumlocutory, circumlocutional, circumlocutionary, ambagious, wordy, verbose, prolix, endless, interminable: We couldn't make heads or tails of the professor's rambling lecture. 2 unplanned, straggling, irregular, sprawling, spread out, spreading, straggly: The Wilsons live in that big old rambling Victorian house down the road. 3 roving, wandering, travelling, peripatetic, itinerant, wayfaring, migratory, nomadic: For five years he led a rambling life as a folk-singing banjo player.
RAPACITY|11|n. greed, greediness, cupidity, covetousness, avarice, acquisitiveness, predaciousness, ravenousness, voracity, voraciousness, insatiability, insatiableness, rapaciousness: The rapacity of the invading hordes of Mongols knew no bounds.
RAPIDITY|14|n. quickness, swiftness, speed, speediness, briskness, expeditiousness, promptness, promptitude, alacrity, celerity, immediateness, dispatch or despatch, instantaneousness: The rapidity with which they responded to our request is truly commendable.
RAREFIED|12|adj. 1 thin, lean, attenuated, diluted, sparse, scant, scanty: As we climbed higher, the rarefied atmosphere made breathing more difficult. 2 exalted, lofty, elevated, high, sublime, noble, high: I feel out of place in the rarefied atmosphere of academia. 3 cliquish, clannish, exclusive, private, select, esoteric: Clarence copes well in the rarefied atmosphere of Whitehall's corridors of power.
RATIONAL|8|adj. 1 well-balanced, sane, sound, normal, reasonable, reasoning, logical, ratiocinative, clear-headed, clear-eyed, sober; of sound mind, Colloq all there: Desmond is a rational human being who would be able to advise you about your problem. 2 discriminating, intelligent, thinking, enlightened, prudent, wise, knowledgeable, informed: We could not have elected a more rational representative for our cause than Robert Brown. 3 sensible, common-sense, commonsensical, practical, pragmatic, down-to-earth, everyday, acceptable, reasonable, logical: Philippa thinks she has a rational explanation for the strange light we saw in the sky last night.
RAVENOUS|8|adj. 1 hungry, famished, starving, starved: We were ravenous after the long hike. 2 voracious, gluttonous, greedy, insatiable, ravening, swinish, piggish, hoggish, edacious, wolfish: With my family's ravenous appetites, there are rarely any leftovers.
READABLE|6|adj. 1 intelligible, comprehensible, understandable, easy to understand, easily understood, plain: Surprisingly, the instructions for operating the computer are fairly readable. 2 entertaining, easy to read, enjoyable, pleasurable, absorbing, interesting, engaging, stimulating, worthwhile: Her latest thriller is so readable that I stayed up all night to finish it. 3 legible, decipherable, distinct: The print on that microfiche is too small to be readable.
REASSURE|6|v. comfort, encourage, hearten, buoy (up), bolster, cheer, uplift, inspirit, brace, support, restore confidence to, set or put (someone's) mind at rest, set or put (someone) at ease, settle (someone's) doubts: The minister reassured the public regarding the safety of public transport.
RECKLESS|4|adj. careless, rash, thoughtless, incautious, heedless, foolhardy, imprudent, unwise, injudicious, impulsive, irresponsible, negligent, unmindful, foolish, devil-may-care, daredevil, wild, breakneck, dangerous, madcap, mad, hare-brained: I won't go with Oliver because he's a reckless driver.
RECOURSE|10|n. 1 resort, access, entr÷e, admittance, availability: They are completely isolated and without recourse to help from the outside world. 2 resource, backup, reserve, refuge, place to turn, alternative, remedy: The company has no recourse against the authorities.
RECOVERY|16|n. 1 recuperation, convalescence, restoration, improvement, healing, rally, turn for the better; rise, revival, increase, amelioration, bettering, betterment, advance, gain, advance, advancement, Colloq pick-up, comeback: After so serious an illness, Bentley has made a remarkable recovery. Share prices staged a recovery after the reduction in interest rates. 2 retrieval, recouping, repossession, retaking, restoration, reclamation; recapture, redemption: The recovery of the stolen gems was credited to excellent detective work. Hard fighting resulted in the recovery of the land west of the river. 3 salvage, delivery, deliverance, rescue, return, saving, reclamation, retrieval: Recovery of the climbers' bodies from the ravine was very hazardous.
REDOLENT|9|adj. 1 fragrant, sweet-smelling, aromatic, perfumed, odorous, scented, savoury: The entire house was redolent with the odour of pine needles. 2 redolent with or of. reminiscent of, suggestive of, evocative of, remindful of, characteristic of, having the earmarks or hallmark of: The style of the film is redolent of 1930s Hollywood.
REGISTER|9|n. 1 record, roll, roster, rota, catalogue, annal(s), archive(s), journal, daybook, diary, appointment book, calendar, chronicle, schedule, programme, directory, ledger, file, index, inventory, list, listing, poll, tally,: The council holds a register of all houses sold since 1900 with the names of both sellers and buyers. 2 cash register, till, money box, cash-box: The money in the register does not agree with the figures for receipts. --v. 3 record, write or jot or take or put or set down, list, enrol, sign in or on or up, enter, catalogue, log, index, chronicle, note, make or take note (of): All transactions must be registered. 4 show, display, express, indicate, manifest, reveal, betray, divulge, record, reflect: James pretended to like my book, but his contempt for it was registered on his face. 5 make known, inform of, advise, transmit, communicate, record, note, make note of, report, write down, minute: I wish to register my disapproval of the way prisoners are treated here. 6 check in, sign in or on, log in: In the US, all aliens are required to register each year in January. We registered in the hotel as man and wife. 7 Sometimes, register with or on. sink in, impress, become apparent (to), make an impression (on), come home (to), get through (to); dawn on or upon, occur to: I heard what you said, but it just didn't register. The name didn't register with me at first, but I now know who you are. 8 indicate, read, mark, represent, measure, point to, specify, exhibit, show, manifest: The earthquake registered 7 on the Richter scale.
REHEARSE|11|v. 1 practise, exercise, run through, read through, study, repeat: Sorry, Annie, but we are going to have to rehearse the scene till you get it right. 2 repeat, relate, recite, tell, describe, recount, review, go through or over, review, report, recapitulate, Colloq recap: I shall go mad if I hear him again rehearse the events leading up to the final acceptance of his novel.
RELIABLE|5|adj. dependable, trustworthy, honest, trusty, trusted, principled, conscientious, punctilious, honourable, credible, believable, safe, sure, certain, secure, sound, responsible, predictable, stable, unfailing, infallible, reputable: Would a reliable employee like Susan abscond with the money?
RELIANCE|10|n. confidence, trust, faith, dependence: You may be placing too much reliance on the smoke alarm.
RELIGION|9|n. creed, belief, faith; doctrine, dogma: People must be treated equally, regardless of their religion.
REMEMBER|14|v. 1 call to mind, bear in mind; recall, recollect: Can you remember her funny little laugh? Yes, I remember. 2 muse (on or about), reminisce over or about, think back on or about, memorialize, commemorate, recognize: He will be remembered for his many achievements. 3 retain, keep in mind, recall: He was unable to remember his own name or where he lived. 4 tip, reward: The Elliotts always remembered the servants at Christmas.
REMINDER|11|n. mnemonic, refresher; cue, prompt: I tied this string round my finger as a reminder, but I don't know of what.
RENOUNCE|10|v. give up, forswear, surrender, abandon, desert, abjure, reject, repudiate, spurn, swear off, abstain from, deny, forgo, forsake, eschew, disown, throw off or out, shun, avoid: He renounced his claim to the throne and retired to a monastery.
RENOVATE|11|v. redecorate, modernize, do over, refurbish, refurnish, refit, remodel; recondition, rehabilitate, restore, repair, revamp, overhaul, patch up, Colloq do up, US fix up: We are having the entire house renovated by an interior decorator. It was quite costly to have those paintings renovated.
RENOWNED|12|adj. famous, famed, celebrated, distinguished, acclaimed, prominent, eminent, well-known, noted, notable, honoured, illustrious: He was one of the most renowned authors of the 19th century.
REPARTEE|8|n. banter, badinage, persiflage, patter, (witty) conversation, wordplay, raillery, give and take, Literary deipnosophism: Simon's witty repartee makes him a most welcome dinner guest.
REPORTER|10|n. journalist, newspaperman, newspaperwoman, newsman, newswoman, correspondent, columnist, newswriter, gentleman or lady of the press, gentleman or lady of the fourth estate, Brit pressman, presswoman; newscaster, news-presenter, commentator, broadcaster, anchorman, anchorwoman; photojournalist, cameraman, camerawoman, Colloq news-hound, news-hawk, news-hen, stringer: Reporters swarmed around the footballers who had returned home with the World Cup.
REPRIEVE|13|v. 1 respite, rescue, save; let off, spare: The Home Secretary reprieved the prisoner from execution pending further investigation. --n. 2 delay, postponement, suspension, remission, respite, stay, amnesty: The governor granted the condemned man a reprieve at the eleventh hour.
REPRISAL|10|n. retaliation, revenge, retribution, redress, requital, vengeance, repayment, recompense, vindication, getting even, indemnity: She refused to be named because she feared reprisals. How many hostages did they shoot in reprisal?
REQUITAL|6|n. 1 repayment, return, recompense, redress, restitution, reparation, remuneration, quittance, amends, satisfaction, compensation, payment: I look forward to an opportunity to make requital for all the favours you have done for me. 2 revenge, retaliation, retribution, reprisal, vengeance; quid pro quo, Roland for an Oliver: In requital for his shameful treachery, MacFallon was sent into exile.
RESEMBLE|7|v. look or sound or taste or seem or be like or similar to, bear (a) resemblance to, approximate, smack of, correspond to, have (all) the hallmarks or earmarks of, take after, Colloq favour: You are right, the taste does resemble that of liquorice. Does she resemble her mother?
RESERVED|12|adj. reticent, restrained, unresponsive, controlled, silent, taciturn, uncommunicative, unforthcoming, close-mouthed, unresponsive, undemonstrative, unemotional, poker-faced, cool, formal, aloof, guarded, standoffish, unsocial, antisocial, distant, remote, detached, retiring, withdrawn, sedate, demure, dignified, guarded, prim, rigid, strait-laced, icy, frigid, ice-cold: She was always very reserved, not showing any emotion.
RESIDUAL|9|adj. remaining, leftover, surplus, spare, extra, residuary: Residual units of the army are still bivouacked in the field. How would we survive nuclear fall-out and the subsequent residual contamination?
RESOLUTE|8|adj. resolved, determined, purposeful, steadfast, firm, stubborn, adamant, set, decided, staunch, bold, dogged, undaunted, dauntless, persevering, persisting, persistent, perseverant, pertinacious, tenacious, single-minded, dedicated, devoted, bulldog, purposive, deliberate, inflexible, unwavering, unshakeable or unshakable, unshaken, unflagging, untiring, indefatigable, tireless, unfaltering, unhesitating, unhesitant, unswerving, irreversible, undeviating, unchanging, changeless, unchangeable, immutable, unalterable: We remain resolute in our determination to end injustice.
RESONANT|8|adj. vibrating, vibrant, resounding, (re-)echoing, reverberating, reverberant, pulsating, ringing, booming, thundering, thunderous, loud: The resonant pealing of the bells almost drove me mad.
RESOURCE|10|n. 1 Often, resources. initiative, ingenuity, talent, inventiveness, imagination, imaginativeness, cleverness, quick-wittedness, capability, resourcefulness, aptitude, qualifications, strength, quality, forte, Colloq Brit gumption, Slang guts: Has he the inner resources for the job that lies ahead? 2 Often, resources. capital, assets, money, possessions, wealth, property, cash, funds: She has sufficient resources to retire at fifty if she wants to.
RESPONSE|10|n. answer, reply, retort, rejoinder; reaction, effect, feedback, return, Colloq comeback: Whatever you say to Ronnie Farrago, he always has a snappy response. The response to our advertising has been quite good.
RESTLESS|6|adj. restive, uneasy, edgy, on edge, on tenterhooks, fidgety, nervous, skittish, excitable, highly-strung, high-strung, worked up, agitated, fretful, jumpy, apprehensive, itchy, Colloq jittery, Slang uptight, US antsy, hyper: The crowd in the square were becoming restless as they waited for the speeches to start.
RESTRICT|10|v. limit, confine, bound, circumscribe, delimit, mark off, demarcate, regulate; qualify, restrain, impede: Smoking is allowed only in restricted areas. The opposition party said that they would restrict the movement of heavy goods by road.
RETICENT|10|adj. quiet, shy, timid, retiring, reserved; taciturn, silent, unresponsive, tight-lipped, unforthcoming: If you are proud of your accomplishments, why be reticent about saying so? Colin is reticent about how he acquired his gold earring.
RETIRING|5|adj. shy, bashful, coy, demure, modest, diffident, timid, unpretentious, unassuming, humble, self-effacing, timorous, meek, reticent, reserved, unsocial, unsociable, aloof, removed, standoffish, distant, reclusive, eremitic(al): Howard is of a retiring disposition, preferring to keep to himself.
RETRIEVE|11|v. 1 bring or get (back), fetch, come back with: Simon trained his dog to retrieve his slippers. 2 recover, save, rescue, take back, recoup, regain, reclaim: I tried using a fishing line to retrieve my hat from the lake. 3 make up, make amends for, recover, cover, redeem, repay, pay for, return, get back, regain, be repaid or reimbursed for: Will we be able to retrieve our losses when we sell the business?
REVERSAL|11|n. 1 reverse, turn-about, turn-round, U-turn, change, volte-face, (complete) switch, Brit about-turn, US about-face: This represents a reversal of former policy, doesn't it? 2 See reverse, 8, below. 3 annulment, nullification, nulling, cancellation, revocation, repeal, rescission: The present case is an appeal against the reversal of an earlier judgement.
REVISION|11|n. editing, revising, emendation, improvement, correction, rectification, modification, revamping, reappraisal, re-examination, reinterpretation, reassessment, redaction, reworking, overhaul, overhauling, updating, update; rewrite, edition, version, rendition: Her revision of the text is based on a newly discovered manuscript. The fourth revision will be available next April.
REVOLVER|14|n. pistol, gun, side-arm, firearm, Chiefly US and Canadian handgun, Colloq US six-gun, six-shooter, Slang US rod, gat, roscoe, piece, Saturday-night special, shooting-iron: How do you explain the fact that your fingerprints were found on the revolver with which she was shot?
RHETORIC|8|n. 1 eloquence, expressiveness, elocution, way with words, Colloq gift of the gab: His rhetoric, though it defied analysis, exactly reflected the emotions of the Labour movement. 2 bombast, bluster, fustian, rodomontade, grandiloquence, magniloquence, oratory, windiness, high-flown poppycock, wordiness, sesquipedality, verbosity, prolixity, long-windedness, turgidity, flatulence, gasconade, Colloq hot air, puffery: Her threats are mere rhetoric and I refuse to take notice of them.
RHYTHMIC|11|adj. rhythmical, measured, cadenced, throbbing, pulsing, pulsating, regular, steady, beating: The rhythmic sound of the waves soon sent me to sleep.
RIBALDRY|14|n. vulgarity, immodesty, indelicacy, indecency, coarseness, bawdiness, earthiness, wantonness, raciness, naughtiness, shamelessness, lustfulness, rakishness, rascality, dissoluteness, lubricity, lasciviousness, looseness, scurrility or scurrilousness, lewdness, salaciousness, licentiousness, grossness, offensiveness, rankness, rudeness, smuttiness, smut, dirt, filth, foulness, obscenity: The ribaldry of some of Chaucer's tales makes them not altogether suitable for schoolchildren.
RIDICULE|11|n. 1 derision, deriding, jeer, jeering, taunt, taunting, mockery, mocking, gibe or jibe, gibing or jibing, raillery, Colloq ribbing, US and Canadian razzing, joshing: Nick was often subjected to ridicule because of his outlandish clothes. --v. 2 deride, jeer at, taunt, tease, mock, gibe or jibe, guy, chaff, laugh at, caricature, poke fun at, make fun or sport of, lampoon, burlesque, travesty, parody, make a laughing-stock (of), Colloq rib, roast, Brit send up, take the mickey out of, US and Canadian razz, josh: In a democracy, it is an inalienable right of the people to ridicule their leaders and government.
RIFFRAFF|4|n. rabble, hoi polloi, ragtag and bobtail, scum, canaille, masses, dregs (of society), Colloq great unwashed: I am shocked that you continue your membership in a club to which riff-raff like Trevor Barnes belong.
RIGHTFUL|8|adj. 1 legal, lawful, legitimate, licit, de jure, correct, proper, bona fide, valid, true, authorized, right: If the deed is in his name, then he is the rightful owner. 2 just, fair, equitable, right: Emily has supported rightful causes all her life.
RIVETING|8|adj. spellbinding, engrossing, hypnotic, hypnotizing, transfixing, fascinating, enthralling, gripping, captivating, absorbing: The programme was absolutely riveting - one of the best I have ever seen.
ROMANTIC|12|adj. 1 imaginary, imagined, fictitious, fictional, ideal, idealized, fancied, fabulous, made-up, dreamed-up, dreamt-up, fantasized, fanciful, fairy-tale, mythical, idyllic, Utopian, illusory: Vivian isn't a real person - she's just Howard's romantic notion of the girl he wants to marry. 2 impractical, visionary, fictitious, unpractical, unrealistic, ideal, abstract, quixotic, chimerical, absurd, extravagant, wild, crackpot, mad: She had romantic notions of how she would be running her own international business by the time she was thirty. 3 nostalgic, sentimental, emotional, sweet, tender, picturesque, exotic, glamorous; mawkish, maudlin, saccharine, Colloq soppy, sugary, mushy, sloppy: I can think of a lot more romantic places than a hamburger bar to eat on our anniversary. Fred hates it when I get too romantic. 4 amorous, affectionate, aroused, impassioned, passionate, libidinous, lustful, over-friendly, Colloq lovey-dovey; fresh: After a drink or two Mike starts getting romantic - if you know what I mean. --n. 5 romanticist, dreamer, Don Quixote, visionary, idealist, sentimentalist: I've never lost my taste for soft lights and sweet music - I suppose I'm just a romantic at heart.
ROWDYISM|17|n. rowdiness, ruffianism, hooliganism, rough-house, barbarism, troublemaking, brawling, unruliness, boisterousness, Slang Brit bovver: Have you any suggestions about what to do to curb rowdyism at football matches?
RUTHLESS|4|adj. pitiless, unpitying, cruel, unsympathetic, merciless, unmerciful, harsh, fierce, remorseless, uncompassionate, vicious, savage, ferocious, hard-hearted, callous, unfeeling, tough, severe, heartless, inhuman, brutal, brutish, unrelenting, relentless, Chiefly US and Canadian mean: The jail houses some of the country's most ruthless criminals. In all of history there was no more ruthless a tyrant.
SABOTAGE|11|n. 1 destruction, damage, wrecking, impairment: Enemy infiltrators were responsible for the sabotage of our radar. 2 subversion, treachery, treason: When the radar was found damaged, sabotage was suspected. --v. 3 undermine, subvert, disrupt, spoil, ruin, cripple; damage, incapacitate, disable, destroy, wreck, Colloq Brit throw a spanner in(to) the works, US throw a monkey wrench into the machinery, Slang Brit queer (someone's pitch): Only someone who had something to lose would have sabotaged our plan for reorganization. The engine had been sabotaged by pouring sand into the fuel tank.
SADISTIC|11|adj. cruel, monstrous, brutal, brutish, beastly, ruthless, perverse, Technical algolagnic: She derives sadistic pleasure from reminding me of all my failures. The scars and bruises confirmed the sadistic treatment he had undergone.
SANCTIFY|16|v. 1 consecrate, hallow, make sacred or holy, glorify, exalt, canonize, enshrine; Rom Cath Ch beatify: The site was sanctified and is visited by pilgrims throughout the year. 2 purify, cleanse: According to Scripture, some are sanctified before birth. 3 confirm, sanction, ratify, justify, legitimate, legitimatize or legitimize, legalize, license: Her family insisted that the marriage be sanctified at the church in Suffolk, where they live.
SANCTION|10|n. 1 confirmation, ratification, secondment, authorization, legalization, legitimatization or legitimization, validation, licence, certification, approval, permission, imprimatur, seal or stamp (of approval), signet: If you get the sanction of the rest of the members, then I shall agree. 2 help, aid, encouragement, support, advocacy, backing, sponsorship, favour, countenance: You will need the sanction of the entire committee in order to win a vote of confidence. 3 agreement, concurrence, acceptance, affirmation, assent, acquiescence, compliance, approval, OK or okay: He would never have proceeded with the invasion without the sanction of his generals. 4 ban, penalty, punishment, retribution, discipline, retaliation, redress: The government decided to introduce sanctions against the regime on account of their atrocious record on human rights. --v. 5 confirm, ratify, second, authorize, legalize, legitimatize or legitimize, validate, license, certify, approve, permit, allow, notarize, vouchsafe, subscribe to, commission, consent to: If the board sanctions the purchase of the company, it is then up to the shareholders to vote. 6 support, encourage, advocate, back, sponsor, favour, countenance, help: You know I cannot be seen to sanction your plan in preference to others.
SANCTITY|13|n. piety, holiness, saintliness, divinity, grace, sacredness, godliness, devotion, dedication: The arguments of the anti-abortionists were based on a belief in the sanctity of all human life.
SANGUINE|9|adj. optimistic, rosy, confident, hopeful, forward-looking, anticipatory, expectant, enthusiastic, fervid, zealous: Some experts took a more sanguine view, saying that they expected to see the start of an economic upturn in the next few months.
SANITARY|11|adj. clean, sterile, hygienic, antiseptic, disinfected, aseptic, germ-free, bacteria-free; healthy, unpolluted, salubrious, healthful, salutary, wholesome: With such shortages of personnel and equipment, it was impossible to maintain a sanitary hospital environment.
SARDONIC|11|adj. ironic(al), derisive, derisory, mocking, cynical, sarcastic: She said that she was leaving him, but his only response was a sardonic smile.
SATIRIZE|17|v. lampoon, burlesque, parody, caricature, travesty, poke fun at, (hold up to) ridicule, make fun or sport of, pillory, deride, mock; mimic, imitate; Colloq take off, put down, Brit send up: Since ancient times writers have satirized the follies of their age.
SATURATE|8|v. soak, wet, drench, steep, fill, imbue, souse, suffuse, impregnate, permeate; waterlog; Technical ret: I got caught in the rain and came home saturated. Make sure that you saturate the earth round the tree once you have finished planting.
SCARCELY|11|adv. 1 hardly, barely, (only) just, not quite: He had scarcely uttered the magic words when the rock split open. 2 (probably or certainly or surely or definitely) not, in no way, not at all, not in the least, by no means, on no account, under no circumstances, nowise, Colloq US noway: I scarcely need remind you that you are getting married tomorrow.
SCARCITY|7|n. lack, want, need, paucity, dearth, insufficiency, shortage, inadequacy, inadequateness: The teaching of foreign languages is not improved by the scarcity of qualified teachers.
SCATHING|1|adj. searing, withering, damaging, harmful, severe, harsh, stern, nasty, biting, acrid, acrimonious, mordant, incisive, cutting, sharp, keen, virulent, vitriolic, acid, scorching, burning, fierce, savage, ferocious: She was totally unprepared for the critics' scathing attack on her book.
SCHEDULE|6|n. 1 programme, timetable, plan, calendar, agenda, outline, list, listing, record, register: I'd like a complete schedule of your work for the next month on my desk tomorrow. --v. 2 programme, organize, plan, outline, list, record, register, arrange, book, time, slate, appoint, assign, allot, dedicate, earmark: Schedule the next meeting for the 15th of the month. Alistair is scheduled to speak tomorrow.
SCHEMING|4|adj. conniving, plotting, nefarious, treacherous, crafty, cunning, artful, sly, wily, devious, Machiavellian, intriguing, slick, calculating, tricky, foxy, slippery, underhanded, duplicitous, deceitful: Wait till I lay my hands on the scheming little thief!
SCORNFUL|9|adj. contumelious, contemptuous, disdainful, deprecative, disparaging, derisory, derisive, snide, supercilious, mocking, sneering, scoffing, haughty, overweening, high-handed, superior, Colloq snooty, Slang snotty: The people were scornful of his attempt to reassure them, and continued to demand action.
SCRATCHY|7|adj. 1 itchy, irritating, prickly: The pullover was as scratchy as a hair shirt. 2 rough, hoarse, raw, grating, sore, raspy, dry: My throat feels a bit scratchy and I need something to drink.
SCROUNGE|7|v. 1 ferret out, seek out, nose or smell out, come up with, scrape together or up, scratch up; importune, cadge, beg (, borrow, or steal), Colloq US freeload, bum: Did Hedley try to scrounge some money from you, too? --n. 2 scrounger, cadger, parasite, Colloq sponger, US freeloader: Hedley, that scrounge, has just asked me for a cigarette.
SCRUTINY|9|n. examination, analysis, investigation, probe, probing, study, inspection, sifting, inquiry or enquiry, exploration, check: The tax inspectors have subjected the company books to close scrutiny but have found nothing amiss.
SEACOAST|10|n. seashore, shore, coast, seaside, seaboard, shoreline, coastline, littoral, sand(s), beach, strand: The people in the villages along the sea-coast depend mainly on fishing for their livelihood.
SEASONED|9|adj. experienced, trained, long-standing, long-serving, practised, well-versed, habituated, acclimatized or acclimated, accustomed, familiarized, prepared, established, veteran, tempered, hardened, toughened, inured: It was a pleasure to be working with so seasoned a performer as Margie.
SECLUDED|12|adj. 1 private, separate, isolated, lonely, cloistered, sequestered, detached, solitary, retired, eremitic, monastic: He lives a very secluded life on an island in the Outer Hebrides. 2 off the beaten track, out-of-the-way, remote, far-away, far-off, separate, segregated, private: He chose a secluded island in the Outer Hebrides for his vacation.
SECRETLY|13|adv. surreptitiously, quietly, privately, covertly, on the q.t. or Q.T., furtively, stealthily, mysteriously, clandestinely, in secret, confidentially, on the sly, slyly, sub rosa, sub sigillo: I can tell you secretly that she is wanted by the police. Henry secretly rents videotape cartoons to watch at weekends.
SECURITY|13|n. 1 safety, shelter, protection, fastness, refuge, safe keeping, sanctuary, asylum: During the air raids, we retired to the security of the basement. 2 confidence, certainty, surety, assurance, conviction: He has the security of knowing that he is right in this instance. 3 guarantee or guaranty, collateral, deposit, gage, pledge, insurance: What are you going to offer as security for the loan? 4 surveillance, safeguarding, guarding, safe keeping, protection, custody, custodianship, care: What plans does the company have for the security of the office building?
SEDATIVE|12|n. 1 narcotic, tranquillizer, opiate, sleeping-pill, soporific, calmative, anodyne, depressant, hypnotic, barbiturate, lenitive, Colloq downer, knock-out drop, Slang Mickey (Finn): The doctor has given him a sedative and he should sleep now. --adj. 2 narcotic, tranquillizing, relaxing, soothing, calming, allaying, opiate, soporific, sleep-inducing, calmative, anodyne, lenitive, depressing, hypnotic: I found that listening to a recording of surf splashing on a beach has a sedative effect.
SEDIMENT|11|n. lees, dregs, deposit, grounds, precipitate, remains, residue, settlings, residuum, detritus: Periodically, the sediment must be cleaned out of the filters.
SEDITION|9|n. agitation, incitement (to riot), rabble-rousing, fomentation, instigation, firing-up, stirring up, whipping up; mutiny, insurrection, insurgency or insurgence, rebellion; treason, treachery: Because he had organized the strike in the munitions plant during wartime, he was accused of sedition.
SELFLESS|9|adj. open, charitable, unselfish, self-denying, generous, altruistic, ungrudging, magnanimous, considerate, thoughtful; self-sacrificing: Always ready to help anyone with a need, Archer is the most selfless man I know.
SELFMADE|14|adj. independent, self-reliant, entrepreneurial, self-sufficient: She is a self-made woman and has accomplished it all without anyone else's help.
SENILITY|11|n. (of a woman) anility; senile dementia, Alzheimer's disease, senescence, decrepitude, decline, dotage, second childhood, loss of one's faculties: An increased life-span has created increased cases of senility.
SENSIBLE|5|adj. 1 reasonable, realistic, logical, common-sense, commonsensical, rational, reasoned, sound, practical, prudent, judicious, discreet, intelligent, sage, wise, sane; down-to-earth, matter-of-fact, well-thought-out: Do you really think it sensible to go out in this storm? Andrew has a very sensible way of dealing with junk mail - he returns it to sender. 2 perceivable, perceptible, detectable, evident, discernible, recognizable, ascertainable, apprehensible, cognizable, manifest, palpable, physical, tangible, corporeal, substantive, material, visible, observable, seeable: Some maintain that in addition to the sensible world there is another world, an anti-world, that we do not normally encounter. 3 sentient, feeling, sensitive, live, conscious, aware: Who among us ever regards microbes as sensible creatures? 4 Usually, sensible of or to. conscious (of), aware (of), acquainted (with), cognizant (of), sensitive (to), alive to, mindful (of), understanding (of), in touch (with), observant (of), awake (to), alert (to), Slang wise (to), hip or old-fashioned hep (to): The people of the village are ever sensible to the needs of their neighbours. There are some things to which we are not at all sensible. 5 appreciable, significant, considerable, substantial, substantive, noticeable: The theory is that an increased interest rate will have a sensible effect on the rate of inflation.
SENSUOUS|5|adj. sensory, sybaritic, epicurean, hedonist(ic), sumptuous, luxurious, rich: She felt sensuous delight in the scents and sounds of the island.
SENTENCE|10|n. judgement, decision, ruling, verdict, decree, determination; punishment, Slang rap: It is up to the judge to announce the sentence of the court. Asked by his teacher for an example of a short sentence, Johnny replied, 'Thirty days'.
SENTINEL|8|n. sentry, guard, watchman, watch, picket, lookout, patrol: The sentinels measured out the ramparts of the fortress with their regular paces.
SEQUENCE|8|n. succession, progression, order, series, chain, string, course, cycle, arrangement, organization, train, line, set, run, concatenation, system: His description conflicts with the sequence of events as recorded by the video camera. Some of these dates are out of sequence.
SERRATED|7|adj. sawlike, saw-shaped, sawtoothed, toothed, notched, zigzag, jagged, serrate, serriform, serratiform, serrulate(d), crenellated, crenulate, crenate, denticulate: A knife with a serrated edge would cut the meat more easily.
SEVERELY|14|adv. 1 acutely, seriously, badly, dangerously, dreadfully; permanently, fully, entirely: The accident left him severely handicapped. 2 strictly, harshly, rigorously, austerely, oppressively, relentlessly, mercilessly, cruelly, brutally, savagely, inhumanly, tyrannically: The boys were severely maltreated at the school. 3 sternly, forbiddingly, dourly, gloweringly, gravely, seriously, grimly, unsmilingly, soberly, coldly, coolly, austerely: Mrs Gladwin regarded me severely over the top of her pince-nez. 4 stringently, punitively, harshly, onerously, grievously, painfully: One is punished severely for the slightest infraction of the law. 5 dangerously, acutely, critically, dreadfully, awfully; mortally, fatally, terminally: I am afraid to say that your mother is severely ill. 6 starkly, plainly, barely, modestly, austerely, ascetically, monastically, primitively, simply, crudely, sparsely, sparely: The room is furnished a bit severely for my taste.
SEVERITY|14|n. 1 strictness, harshness, rigour, rigorousness, austerity, hardness, flintiness, inexorability, inexorableness, stringency, oppression, oppressiveness, rigidity, inflexibility, relentlessness, obduracy, obdurateness, pitilessness, mercilessness, cold-bloodedness, abusiveness, cruelty, brutality, meanness, savagery, inhumanity, beastliness, ruthlessness, despotism, tyranny, fastidiousness, exigency: The severity of the discipline was almost unbearable. 2 coldness, aloofness, sternness, gravity, grimness, frigidity, austerity, solemnity: The severity of his look froze me to the spot. 3 dangerousness, acuteness, seriousness, gravity, ferocity, fierceness, virulence, violence, intensity: The severity of the fits has diminished since we put the patient on new medication. 4 stringency, punitiveness, punishment, harshness, onerousness, grievousness, painfulness, burdensomeness, oppressiveness: The severity of the sentence is not inappropriate to the heinousness of the crime. 5 harshness, inclemency, violence, storminess, intensity, ferocity, fierceness, fury, furiousness, tempestuousness: The severity of the weather has interfered with our maintenance of the electrical power lines. 6 plainness, starkness, austerity, asceticism, bareness, modesty, simplicity, primitiveness, spareness, sparseness, monasticism, crudeness: The severity of the cells at the monastery was equalled by the austerity of the regimen.
SHAMBLES|5|n. chaos, devastation, mess, disaster, Augean stables, pigsty, muddle, pigpen: I can't find anything in this shambles. The campaign degenerated into a complete shambles.
SHAMEFUL|11|adj. disgraceful, dishonourable, base, low, mean, vile, degrading, indecent, inglorious, deplorable, discreditable, corrupt, disreputable, infamous, ignominious, humiliating, embarrassing, mortifying, humbling, chastening, discomfiting, shaming, blameworthy, scandalous, outrageous, unprincipled: Quentin was known for his shameful behaviour both at school and in the army.
SHEEPISH|4|adj. 1 timid, withdrawn, passive, docile, obedient, compliant, sheeplike, manipulable, tractable, pliable, meek, amenable: Dashworth might seem sheepish but he doesn't like to be bullied. 2 See shamefaced, above.
SHEPHERD|12|v. lead, convoy, escort, conduct, guide, usher, take, pursue: I want you, personally, to shepherd Miss Jones through the plant. As this project requires special care, I shall shepherd it through personally.
SHOCKING|1|adj. 1 surprising, astounding, astonishing, amazing, striking, stupefying, numbing, sudden, unexpected, electrifying, startling, Colloq mind-boggling, mind-blowing: It was shocking to see the way the neighbourhood had deteriorated. 2 disgusting, revolting, nauseating, nauseous, sickening, repulsive, abominable, hideous, horrible, horrifying, horrific, horrid, foul, loathsome, abhorrent, ghastly, hideous, unspeakable, dreadful, distressing, outrageous, appalling, monstrous, scandalous: The conditions in the concentration camps were shocking.
SHOULDER|7|n. 1 side, edge, verge, margin; breakdown lane: If you have a flat tyre, drive onto the hard shoulder and phone for help. 2 give (someone) the cold shoulder. rebuff, snub, ostracize, send (someone) to Coventry, cold-shoulder, put (someone) down, reject, exclude, freeze (someone) out, shun, avoid, Colloq cut (dead): After his court case, they gave Nicholas the cold shoulder at his club. 3 put (one's or the) shoulder to the wheel. make every effort, make an effort, strive, work hard, pitch in, apply oneself, roll up one's sleeves, set or get to work, Colloq knuckle down, buckle down: If we put our shoulders to the wheel, we ought to be able to get our candidate elected. 4 rub shoulders (with). associate (with), hobnob (with), socialize (with), consort (with), mix (with), fraternize (with), keep company (with): Once in a while, she condescends to come down and rub shoulders with the common people. 5 shoulder to shoulder. side by side, united, as one, cooperatively, jointly, arm in arm, hand in hand, in partnership: If we fight shoulder to shoulder, we can defeat this menace and regain our freedom. 6 straight from the shoulder. directly, straightforwardly, candidly, frankly, honestly, openly, unabashedly, unashamedly, unambiguously, unequivocally, plainly, bluntly, man to man, (with) no holds barred, outright, Colloq without beating about the bush, without pulling (any) punches: I want to tell you, straight from the shoulder, Willie, you're the best pal in the world. --v. 7 push, shove, jostle, hustle, thrust aside, elbow, force: She shouldered everyone aside roughly to fight her way to the bargain counter. 8 support, carry, bear, take upon oneself, take on, accept, assume: Are you ready to shoulder the responsibilities of caring for a family?
SHOWDOWN|13|n. confrontation, climax, moment of truth, final settlement, moment of decision, US face-off: It's come to the point where we must have a showdown about who's boss.
SIDESTEP|11|v. avoid, dodge, circumvent, skirt, evade, shun, steer clear of, Colloq duck: The minister neatly sidestepped all questions about her retirement.
SIDEWALK|16|n. walk, Chiefly Brit pavement, footpath, footway: You may play on the sidewalk, but don't you dare step into the street.
SIDEWAYS|15|adv. obliquely, laterally, edgeways, edge on, sidelong, crabwise, indirectly, US and Canadian edgewise: The dresser will go through the door if you turn it sideways.
SILENTLY|11|adv. quietly, soundlessly, noiselessly, with catlike tread, as quietly as a mouse, stealthily; wordlessly, speechlessly, mutely: They fold their tents like the Arabs, And silently steal away. He stood by silently, allowing his brother to do all the talking.
SIMPLIFY|18|v. clarify, clear up, make easy, paraphrase, explain, explicate, disentangle, untangle, unravel, streamline: Simplify your request and we shall be able to do what you ask.
SINGULAR|5|adj. 1 unusual, different, atypical, eccentric, extraordinary, remarkable, special, uncommon, strange, odd, peculiar, bizarre, outlandish, curious, queer, outr÷, offbeat, Slang far-out: Ideas that yesterday were considered singular have today become quite commonplace. 2 outstanding, prominent, eminent, pre-eminent, noteworthy, significant, important, conspicuous, particular, notable, signal, exceptional, superior: Stempel made a singular contribution to the development of microscopy. 3 lone, isolated, single, separate, uncommon, rare, unique, distinct, one of a kind: Some medieval philosophers denied the existence of general realities, and claimed that all things that exist were particular and singular.
SINISTER|8|adj. 1 fateful, inauspicious, unfavourable, foreboding, threatening, menacing, minacious, minatory or minatorial, portentous, ominous, unpropitious, disastrous, dark, gloomy: There was a sinister meaning in the look he gave her. 2 evil, bad, corrupt, base, malevolent, malignant, malign, harmful, pernicious, treacherous, nefarious, wicked, diabolic(al), baleful, villainous, insidious, sneaky, furtive, underhand(ed): The poor girl fell under the sinister influence of a real-life Svengali.
SKINDEEP|13|adj. superficial, shallow, surface, slight, external, unimportant, trivial, unprofound, insubstantial: The impression he makes on people is only skin-deep.
SKIRMISH|12|n. 1 fight, encounter, fray, brush, clash, engagement, confrontation, showdown, combat, battle, conflict, struggle, set-to, contest, scrimmage, fracas, tussle, mél÷e or melee, Law affray, Colloq scrap, dust-up, Brit scrum: There was a brief skirmish when the troops met a band of partisans. --v. 2 fight, clash, struggle, battle, tussle, clash: At the edge of the convoy a destroyer skirmished with a submarine.
SLIGHTLY|8|adv. a little, somewhat, to a certain or slight or minor extent or degree or measure, marginally: Yes, I do feel slightly better, thank you.
SLIPPERY|9|adj. 1 slick, sleek, slimy, icy, glassy, smooth, greasy, oily, lubricated, Colloq skiddy: Be careful! Those stairs can be slippery when they're wet. 2 evasive, devious, shifty, unreliable, undependable, questionable, untrustworthy, dishonest, treacherous, disloyal, perfidious, slick, crafty, sly, foxy, cunning, tricky, sneaky, false, reptilian, faithless, Colloq shady: I have dealt with some very slippery characters over the years, but this one is downright evil.
SLIPSHOD|9|adj. careless, slovenly, slapdash, haphazard, messy, untidy, disorganized, lax, unorganized, Colloq sloppy: We refused to pay the bill because of the slipshod way they did the repairs.
SLOTHFUL|9|adj. idle, lazy, indolent, apathetic, indifferent, torpid, inert, pococurante, slack, lax, shiftless, fain÷ant, inactive, do-nothing, sluggish, sluggard(ly), slow, laggard, languorous, languid, lethargic, lackadaisical, phlegmatic, hebetudinous: One cannot pursue a slothful attitude and expect to get anywhere in life.
SMOULDER|11|v. burn; seethe, simmer, chafe, rage, fume, foam, boil, stew, fester, Colloq get hot under the collar, get (all) steamed up, see red, US do a slow burn, get (all) burnt up: The fire continued to smoulder, then flared up again a week later. He has been smouldering ever since his wife confessed she was going out with another man.
SNAPPISH|4|adj. 1 short-tempered, testy, petulant, peevish, irritable, prickly, touchy, irascible, quick to anger, quick-tempered, hot-tempered, waspish, Brit snappy, US on a short string or tether: He fancies that being snappish goes with his 'artistic' temperament. 2 curt, short, abrupt, brusque, curmudgeonly, cantankerous, sharp, cross, grouchy, gruff, cranky, crusty, crabby, crabbed, acid, tart, acerbic, churlish, dyspeptic, choleric, splenetic, ill-humoured, ill-tempered, temperamental, moody, Brit snappy: Grandad tended to be snappish when he became impatient with our lack of experience.
SNEAKING|9|adj. 1 persistent, lingering, lurking, nagging, worrying, worrisome, niggling, intuitive, deep-rooted, deep-seated, Slang gut: She had a sneaking suspicion that Stephen was a police informer. 2 innate, intuitive, inherent, private, secret, suppressed, hidden, unexpressed, undeclared, unvoiced, unavowed, unconfessed, unrevealed, unadmitted, undivulged, undisclosed, covert: I have a sneaking sympathy with the underdog.
SNOBBERY|9|n. snobbism, snobbishness, pretentiousness, pretension, hauteur, haughtiness, superciliousness, condescension, loftiness, contemptuousness, presumptuousness, lordliness, disdainfulness, disdain, pompousness, pomposity, affectation, inflatedness, self-importance, conceit, vainness, vanity, narcissism, self-admiration, self-centredness, egotism, smugness, Colloq uppishness, uppitiness, snootiness, snottiness: It is commonplace to criticize the nouveau riche for their snobbery.
SNOBBISH|4|adj. condescending, superior, patronizing, arrogant, haughty, lordly, lofty, putting on airs, disdainful, supercilious, contemptuous, pretentious, smug, scornful, self-important, affected, conceited, egotistic(al), vain, self-satisfied, complacent, pompous, Colloq snooty, snotty, highfalutin or hifalutin, on one's high horse, uppity, hoity-toity, high and mighty, stuck-up, Brit uppish, Chiefly US high-hat, Slang Brit toffee-nosed: Since he got his knighthood, Cathcart has become so snobbish he'll have nothing to do with us.
SOBRIETY|13|n. 1 teetotalism, abstemiousness, abstention, abstinence, non-indulgence, temperance: Since taking the pledge, Oscar has been a model of sobriety. 2 seriousness, soberness, solemnity, staidness, gravity, temperateness, sedateness, formality, dignity: They made him promise to do nothing to upset the sobriety of the memorial service.
SOCALLED|9|adj. 1 styled, self-styled, designated, soi-disant, called, professed: They found themselves fighting for Kolchak, the so-called supreme ruler of all the Russias. 2 alleged, pretended, supposed, ostensible; misnamed, misdesignated; suspect: She bought it through the so-called Honest Used Car Dealers Association.
SOCIABLE|3|adj. friendly, affable, approachable, social, gregarious, outgoing, extrovert(ed) or extravert(ed), companionable, accessible, amiable, amicable, genial, congenial, convivial, warm, cordial, neighbourly, hail-fellow-well-met, Colloq chummy, cosy: The people in this area are quite sociable, and we get together often.
SOLECISM|8|n. error, slip, impropriety, fault, breach, violation, lapse, mistake, misusage, incongruity, inconsistency, barbarism, blunder, gaffe, bungle, fumble, gaucherie, faux pas, botch or botch-up, Colloq boo-boo, US flub, Slang boner, Brit boob, bloomer, Chiefly US and Canadian blooper: Solecisms in his writing include failure of subject and verb to agree.
SOLIDIFY|15|v. 1 harden, freeze, set, cake, compact, compress, crystallize; jell or gel, clot, congeal, coagulate, thicken, Technical inspissate; sublime: The lava flowed round the bodies of those who died and solidified, preserving them in their final attitudes. 2 consolidate, unite, unify, pull or draw together: Studying the speeches of politicians enables me to solidify my own views.
SOLITARY|11|adj. 1 lone, single, sole, individual; unattended, solo, companionless, friendless, lonesome, lonely, unsocial, cloistered, secluded, reclusive, separate, eremitic(al), hermitic(al), remote, withdrawn, distant, out-of-the-way, unfrequented, desolate: There is not a solitary exception to the rule. Flora's solitary style of living allows her to concentrate on her writing. There is a solitary little inn where we go for weekends. --n. 2 solitary confinement: The prisoner has been in solitary for striking a guard.
SOLITUDE|9|n. 1 solitariness, aloneness, isolation, seclusion, privacy: Peter enjoys the solitude of living on an island. 2 loneliness, remoteness; emptiness, wilderness: How long could one person survive in the solitude of interstellar space?
SOLUTION|8|n. 1 solving, working or figuring out, discovery, finding out, unravelling, explication, deciphering, decipherment, elucidation, revelation, clarification, explanation; answer, key: The solution of the problem should be left up to the experts. Several solutions have been found through computer analysis. 2 settlement, settling, resolution, result, denouement or d÷nouement, outcome, conclusion: It seems unlikely that we shall be able to bring this matter to a solution in a one-day meeting. 3 mixture, blend, compound, infusion; liquid, fluid; Technical emulsion, suspension, colloid or colloidal solution or colloidal suspension: After mixing the powder with water, use the solution to bathe the wound. 4 dissolving, dissolution, mixing, mixture: The solution of these ingredients in alcohol was first accomplished in ancient times.
SOMEBODY|16|pron. 1 one, someone, some person: There must be somebody who will take you to the dance. --n. 2 personage, celebrity, dignitary, VIP, luminary, notable, star, superstar, Colloq hotshot, bigwig, big wheel, big gun, big noise, big White Chief, big Daddy, big Chief, big-timer; hot stuff; Old-fashioned big cheese; US Mr Big: He must be a somebody to merit such treatment.
SOMETIME|12|adj. 1 former, erstwhile, past, recent, one-time, quondam: Crawford was a sometime student of the occult. --adv. 2 at some time or other, someday, one day, any time, on a future occasion, when or if the opportunity arises, soon, by and by, one of these days: Come up and see me sometime. 3 sooner or later, in (due) time, in the fullness of time, in the long run, one fine day, Un bel di, eventually, when all is said and done, before long, before you know it: You can be sure that the tax man will find out about it sometime.
SOMEWHAT|8|adv. rather, quite, relatively, more or less, moderately, pretty, fairly, to some or a certain extent or degree or measure, slightly, a bit, a little, Colloq sort of, kind of: Ingrid was somewhat put out by my refusal.
SOOTHING|1|adj. 1 relaxing, restful, serene, peaceful, pacifying, calm, calming, quiet, soft, quieting: I put on some soothing music and offered her a cocktail. 2 mollifying, comforting, palliative, lenitive, demulcent, balsamic, emollient: The doctor prescribed a soothing ointment to relieve the pain.
SORCERER|10|n. sorceress, magus, necromancer, wizard, witch, warlock, enchanter, enchantress, magician, thaumaturgist, shaman, witch-doctor, medicine man: The law demanded death for the sorcerers and for those who dealt with them.
SPACIOUS|5|adj. vast, large, extensive, enormous, wide, broad, commodious, ample, expansive, roomy, huge, sizeable, large, capacious, great, immense, outsize(d), voluminous, oversize(d): The house was more spacious than it looked from the outside. Siberia offers spacious territory, ripe for habitation over the next century.
SPANKING|11|adj. 1 spic and span, smart, bright, snappy, gleaming, brand-new, fine, remarkable, outstanding, big, large, great: You ought to see Jim Trowbridge's spanking new yacht. 2 brisk, lively, crisp, bracing, fresh, freshening, rattling, strong, invigorating, blustery: A spanking breeze blew up from the west. 3 quick, rapid, swift, lively, snappy, fast, smart, energetic, vigorous, brisk: The pony drew the dogcart at a spanking pace.
SPECIFIC|13|adj. 1 definite, precise, exact, particular, explicit, express, unambiguous, definitive, clear-cut, unequivocal, (well-)defined, determined, specified, individual, peculiar, certain, limited, indicated, predetermined, established, spelt or spelled out, delineated, set, distinct, fixed, circumscribed, restricted: Each part has its specific function. 2 Often, specific to. characteristic (of), unique to, individual (to), sui generis, proper (to), typical (of), peculiar to, identified with, personal (to), discrete (to), special (to), associated with: The disease is specific to one area only. Are these problems group-specific?
SPECIMEN|10|n. sample, example, instance, exemplar, representative, representation; illustration, case (in point), type, model, pattern: This is a specimen taken from the Pre-Cambrian strata. Using this as a specimen, can you reproduce the entire fabric?
SPECIOUS|5|adj. deceptive, superficial, casuistic, ostensible, misleading, apparent, seeming, fallacious, sophistic(al), plausible, likely, conceivable, possible, supposed, purported, presumed, presumable, alleged, so-called: The candidate affected a specious show of liberality merely to attract votes. Do not be misled by specious reasoning.
SPECKLED|9|adj. spotted, mottled, dotted, sprinkled, flecked, stippled, dapple(d), freckled, brindle(d); discoloured, spattered, bespattered: I can see by looking at it that it's a speckled trout.
SPIRITED|11|adj. lively, sprightly, energetic, vigorous, animated, sparkling, dynamic, buoyant, effervescent, vivacious, ardent, mettlesome: The horse I chose was a bit too spirited. The barrister presented a spirited defence for his client. The 1970s saw spirited revivals of art nouveau and art deco styles.
SPLENDID|12|adj. 1 splendorous, magnificent, resplendent, dazzling, gorgeous, showy, dashing, marvellous, spectacular, grand, glorious, lavish, ornate, sumptuous, majestic, brilliant, extraordinary, exceptional, superb, supreme, imposing, impressive, awe-inspiring, awesome, lush, plush, rich, luxurious, Colloq splendiferous, posh, swank(y), ritzy: The mausoleum built by Shah Jehan for his wife was far more splendid than his own palace. 2 impressive, marvellous, brilliant, eminent, prominent, superior, noteworthy, notable, celebrated, illustrious, famous, distinguished, exemplary, remarkable, admirable, conspicuous, outstanding, sublime, striking, extraordinary, successful, admirable, meritorious, creditable: His splendid victory at Waterloo was the climax of his military career. 3 excellent, superior, pre-eminent, fine, marvellous, extraordinary, exceptional, unbelievable, incredible, first-class, unequalled, unsurpassed, fabulous, peerless, matchless, nonpareil, superlative, praiseworthy, laudable, Brit brilliant, Colloq great, colossal, supercolossal, stupendous, fab, fantastic, super, smashing, A1 or A-1 or A-one, tiptop, capital, Brit brill, Slang far-out, way-out, dandy, cool, keen, US solid, out of sight, fantabulous, boss, neat, major: Bill is a splendid dancer.
SPORADIC|13|adj. occasional, intermittent, random, irregular, uneven, erratic, chance, unexpected; spasmodic(al), fitful, periodic(al): There has been sporadic unrest in that area of the city.
SPOTLESS|8|adj. 1 immaculate, clean, gleaming, shiny, polished, unspotted, spick and span: The floor is so spotless you could eat off it. 2 pure, unsullied, unassailable, flawless, faultless, untarnished, blameless, irreproachable: Samantha has a spotless reputation.
SPURIOUS|7|adj. false, counterfeit, sham, fake, fraudulent, bogus, mock, imitation, simulated, unauthentic, ungenuine, forged, feigned, pretended, deceitful, meretricious, contrived, factitious, artificial, ersatz, synthetic, Colloq pseudo, phoney or US also phony: His brother was jailed for peddling spurious Egyptian burial artefacts to archaeologists.
STAGNANT|9|adj. motionless, standing, still, quiet, sluggish, unmoving, immobile, flat; stale, foul, putrid, putrescent, putrefied, polluted, dirty, contaminated, filthy: The malarial mosquitoes thrive in pools of stagnant water in the tropical swamps.
STAGNATE|9|v. languish, idle, vegetate, deteriorate, degenerate, decline, go to seed or pot, decay, rust, moulder, decompose, spoil, rot: He felt he had stagnated in a backwater of civilization for far too long.
STALWART|11|adj. 1 robust, stout, strong, mighty, powerful, rugged, staunch, hardy, sturdy, vigorous, lusty, indomitable, solid, able-bodied, brawny, sinewy, muscular, fit, healthy, hale, (hale and) hearty, Colloq husky, hefty, beefy: We shall need a dozen stalwart men to carry out the raid. 2 redoubtable, intrepid, undaunted, resolute, firm, determined, unbending, steadfast, tenacious, unswerving, unwavering, unfaltering, unflinching, uncompromising, unyielding, persevering, persistent, unflagging, relentless, tireless, untiring, indefatigable: Although they lost, their lawyers put up a stalwart defence. 3 brave, courageous, daring, intrepid, valiant, heroic, manly, manful, fearless, indomitable, stout-hearted, bold, audacious, game, red-blooded, plucky, mettlesome, lion-hearted, spirited: These stalwart knights met at dawn on the battlefield. --n. 4 supporter, upholder, sustainer, partisan, loyalist, (party) faithful, trouper, hero, heroine: And most of all I want to thank those stalwarts who have supported me throughout this victorious campaign.
STAMPEDE|13|n. 1 rout, flight, scattering, panic, rush, dash: When the store opened its doors for its annual sale, we were nearly trampled in the stampede. --v. 2 panic, frighten, rush, scatter, rout: Millions of buffalo were killed by stampeding them off cliffs. 3 rush, run, race, charge, take to one's heels, flee, take flight: At the cry of 'Fire!', the audience stampeded for the exits.
STANDARD|10|n. 1 criterion, measure, benchmark, model, pattern, archetype, touchstone, yardstick, gauge, guide, guideline, paradigm, paragon, exemplar, example, sample, type, ideal, beau id÷al, rule, canon, law, requirement, precept, principle: The metric system has become the standard in many countries. People resent having imposed on them the standards of another culture. 2 mean, average, norm, par, level, rating: With many luxuries now necessities, the standard of living has improved enormously. The course was for students of intermediate standard. 3 flag, banner, ensign, emblem, pennant, burgee, insigne (singular of insignia), guidon, gonfalon or gonfanon, labarum: The black knight bore a curiously coloured standard into battle. 4 pole, post, stanchion, lamppost, column, pillar, support, pedestal, pier, footing, (upright) bar or rod or timber: The car went out of control and knocked down two lighting standards. --adj. 5 accepted, approved, definitive, defined, authoritative, official, required, regulative, regulatory, textbook: Must we follow standard procedure? The tests were conducted according to the standard methods. 6 recognized, prevailing, prevalent, usual, customary, habitual, orthodox, set, established, regular, familiar, ordinary, traditional, classic, stock, typical, normal, staple, conventional, universal: People in the south usually regard themselves as speakers of standard English.
STANDING|6|adj. 1 established, set, standard, conventional, customary, usual, normal, regular, fixed, permanent, continued, continuing, regular: The club has standing rules concerning use of the card-room. 2 stagnant, motionless, unmoving, stationary, still, static: Insects bred in the standing pools of rainwater. 3 continuous, fixed, ongoing, perpetual, unbroken: Michael placed a standing order for six cases of Beaujolais Nouveau every November. 4 erect, upright, on one's feet, vertical, unseated: Please remain standing till the signal is given to be seated. --n. 5 status, rank, station, position, place, grade, order, level, stratum: Considering her standing in the party, Mrs Miller ought to win the nomination easily. 6 eminence, prominence, repute, reputation: Foster is a surgeon of considerable standing. 7 Usually, long standing. (considerable) age or longevity or experience or seniority or duration: Ivan is an art expert of long standing.
STINKING|9|adj. 1 foul-smelling, smelly, fetid or foetid, mephitic, rank, noisome, malodorous, reeking, putrid, miasmal or miasmatic(al) or miasmic, rancid, gamy, Colloq Brit pongy, whiffy: They were kept in a stinking dungeon with little food for a month. 2 wretched, villainous, beastly, vile, contemptible, low, despicable, mean, nasty, disgusting, rotten, terrible, awful, Old-fashioned dastardly, Colloq lousy, Taboo slang shitty: Taking my clothes while I was swimming was a stinking thing to do. 3 drunken, drunk (as a lord or US also a skunk), intoxicated, inebriated, (be)sotted, under the influence, over the limit, high, maudlin, tipsy, woozy, Colloq pie-eyed, loaded, in one's cups, under the weather, three sheets to the wind, Slang sozzled, soused (to the gills), potted, plastered, smashed, bombed, pissed, boozed, boozy, tanked, stoned, canned, US in the bag: The last time I saw Bob, he was so stinking I had to pour him onto his train.
STIRRING|3|adj. moving, telling, emotional, emotive, emotion-charged, rousing, stimulating, inspiring, gripping, evocative, exciting, thrilling, melodramatic, dramatic, heady, intoxicating, spirited, inspiriting, exhilarating, awe-inspiring: He was treated to the stirring experience of hearing fifty thousand people shouting his name in unison, again and again.
STOICISM|8|n. indifference, self-possession, austerity, self-control, fortitude, calmness, calm, coolness, imperturbability, longanimity, forbearance, patience, fatalism, resignation, Colloq unflappability: The people accepted the news of one defeat after another with increasing stoicism.
STRAIGHT|5|adj. 1 direct, unbending, undeviating, uncurved, regular, linear: The tracks are straight for as far as the eye can see. 2 erect, vertical, upright, upstanding, perpendicular; plumb: Stop slouching and stand up straight. He stood straight as a ramrod. 3 even, square, true, right, flat, smooth, horizontal, level: Are you sure that the billiard table is straight? 4 honest, frank, straightforward, direct, forthright, legitimate, (fair and) square, fair, equitable, just, above-board, upright, respectable, decent, trustworthy, honourable, dependable, reliable, Colloq upfront: Sternway seems to be perfectly straight in his business dealings. 5 unequivocal, unambiguous, straightforward, candid, plain, simple, explicit, blunt, unembellished, unelaborated, unqualified, outright, accurate: The straight facts are given in this article. The police cannot get a straight story out of him as to his whereabouts last night. 6 direct, point-blank, straightforward, straight from the shoulder, candid, outright, plain, frank, no-nonsense: Do you mind answering a straight question? 7 shipshape, orderly, neat, tidy, in order, arranged, organized, sorted out, spruce, straightened out: I wish Leonard would put his room straight before the guests arrive. 8 sober, staid, sedate, serious, unsmiling, unemotional, impassive, emotionless, taciturn, composed, mask-like: It was impossible to keep a straight face during the school play. 9 undiluted, neat, unmixed, pure, unadulterated, uncut, unmodified, unaltered, unalloyed: He likes his whisky straight. 10 even, square, settled, straightened out, agreed: The account will be straight when Dick makes the last payment. 11 heterosexual, normal, Slang hetero: Till Evelyn came out of the closet, I thought he was straight. --adv. 12 directly, right, undeviatingly, unswervingly; as the crow flies, in a beeline: I should have known she would go straight to the police. 13 (straight) ahead: Go straight for a mile and you'll see it on the right. 14 Sometimes, ...
STREAMER|10|n. pennant, banner, pennon, flag, bannerette or banneret, banderole or banderol or bannerol, gonfalon or gonfanon, jack, burgee: A long streamer fluttered from the mast.
STRENGTH|7|n. 1 power, might, force, mightiness, robustness, toughness, stoutness, sturdiness, brawn, brawniness, muscle, sinew: Do you have the strength to lift that by yourself? 2 fortitude, backbone, stamina, tenacity, tenaciousness, will-power, perseverance, persistence, resoluteness, resolution, pertinacity, nerve, grit, pluck, determination, gameness, intrepidity, firmness, stability, Colloq guts, gutsiness, spunk, US intestinal fortitude, stick-to-it-iveness: Sally was a tower of strength when I needed her the most. 3 talent, ability, aptitude, gift, strong point, asset: One of his strengths is being able to sight-read music. 4 concentration, concentratedness, intensity, potency: Coffee of that strength would keep me awake all night. 5 vigour, force, energy, power, potency, intensity: The strength of the wind was great enough to pick up cars and toss them about. 6 durability, power, toughness, stability, reliability, resistance, solidity, stamina, ruggedness, endurance, soundness: The manufacturer claims that his product has the strength to resist wear for a hundred years. 7 persuasiveness, cogency, weight, force, convincingness, incisiveness, soundness: There is no disputing the strength of the argument against smoking.
STRICKEN|6|adj. 1 Usually, stricken by. struck (down) (by), hit (by), laid low (by or with), affected (by or with), afflicted (with), racked (by or with): He was stricken by pneumonia but is recovering. 2 affected (by), smitten (by), overwhelmed (by or with), overcome (by or with), plagued (by or with), tormented (by); broken, crushed, demoralized, broken-hearted, grief-stricken: He was stricken by her beauty. During the plague year, commerce virtually ceased with the stricken city of London.
STRIDENT|9|adj. shrill, raucous, harsh, loud, grating, stridulous, stridulant, scraping, scratching, scratchy, grinding, hoarse, rough, guttural, husky, gravelly, rasping, jarring, discordant, unharmonious, unmelodious, unmusical, cacophonous, croaking, creaking: Her strident voice could be heard all over the building.
STRIKING|9|adj. remarkable, astounding, astonishing, amazing, wondrous, awe-inspiring, awesome, stunning, impressive, imposing, fabulous, out of the ordinary, unusual, rare, exceptional, marvellous, extraordinary, magnificent, superb, splendid, stupendous, Colloq great, smashing, Slang old-fashioned Brit ripping, ripsnorting, top-hole, topping: I met the most striking girl at the golf club.
STRUGGLE|6|v. 1 strive, strain, expend energy, exert oneself, labour, endeavour, try, attempt: He struggled to keep his head above water. 2 contend, fight, wrestle, battle: They struggled against the twin odds of poverty and sickness. 3 wriggle, wiggle, squirm, writhe, twist, worm: She finally struggled free of the ropes. --n. 4 effort, exertion, strain; toil, work, travail, labour, drudgery, striving, struggling: Earning even a humble living was a struggle in those days. Was the outcome worth the struggle? 5 contention, competition, contest, battle, fight, tussle, match, clash, encounter, strife: The struggle between good and evil continues.
STUBBORN|6|adj. obstinate, unyielding, inflexible, intransigent, intractable, uncompromising, mulish, pigheaded, refractory, wayward, adamant, recalcitrant, bull-headed, persistent, tenacious, pertinacious, unrelenting, dogged, determined: He remains stubborn in his refusal to join the group.
STUDIOUS|6|adj. 1 assiduous, sedulous, diligent, industrious, attentive, careful, painstaking, thorough, tireless: Miniaturists must pay studious attention to detail. 2 scholarly, bookish, academic: She refused to allow her athletic achievements to interfere with her studious pursuits.
STUNNING|3|adj. 1 stupefying, paralysing, staggering, benumbing, numbing; knockout: Another stunning punch to the head and McGinty went down. 2 beautiful, dazzling, brilliant, gorgeous, spectacular, ravishing, sensational, extraordinary, remarkable, marvellous, stupendous, fabulous, wonderful, superb, grand, divine, heavenly, sublime, lovely, exquisite, glorious, astonishing, astounding, amazing, striking, splendid, staggering, overpowering, mind-boggling, earth-shaking, magnificent: There stood the most stunning creature I had ever laid eyes on. The team won a stunning victory in the county tournament.
SUBMERGE|13|v. 1 plunge, submerse, immerse, inundate, dip, wash, soak, drench, saturate, wet, douse, Colloq dunk: To cleanse, submerge the garment in a basin of warm water for ten minutes. 2 dive, plunge, go down, descend, sink, sound, plummet: The order to submerge was given as soon as the planes were spotted. 3 flood, immerse, inundate, swamp, bury, engulf, overwhelm, deluge, drown; conceal, hide, camouflage, obscure, cloak, veil, shroud: He was quickly submerged under an enormous pile of correspondence.
SUBTLETY|13|n. 1 refinement, nicety, delicacy, exquisiteness, intricacy, fineness, acuteness, elegance, sophistication: The subtlety of the detail in this work is quite unique. One must admire the subtlety of expression in her writing. 2 treachery, guile, insidiousness, casuistry, cunning, artfulness, craftiness, deviousness, slyness, deceptiveness: The subtlety of her deception was revealed only after the war.
SUBTRACT|12|v. 1 deduct, take away, take off, take (something) from: First calculate the discount, then subtract it from the price. 2 Sometimes, subtract from. detract (from), diminish, take away (from): Nothing could subtract from the exhilaration of that moment.
SUCCINCT|8|adj. compact, brief, concise, pithy, terse, short, compressed, condensed, epigrammatic: He prefers a succinct style of writing, one that gets to the point.
SUDDENLY|9|adv. 1 in a flash or a moment or a split second, all at once, instantly, instantaneously, momentarily, fleetingly, in the twinkling of an eye, in a trice; quickly, abruptly, swiftly, speedily, rapidly: Suddenly, my whole life flashed before me. He suddenly realized why the head of MI6 had summoned him. 2 all of a sudden, out of the blue, unexpectedly, without warning, on the spur of the moment, hastily, hurriedly, feverishly: Suddenly, she turned on her heel and stormed out.
SUFFRAGE|7|n. (right to) vote, voting right(s), franchise, voice, say, ballot, option, choice: They campaigned for universal adult suffrage.
SUITABLE|5|adj. appropriate, apt, fit, fitting, befitting, becoming, right, proper, correct, acceptable, satisfactory, applicable, meet, seemly; timely, opportune: John has at last found suitable employment. A chandelier is not suitable at all for such a low room. Is this a suitable time for me to ask you a favour?
SUITCASE|10|n. bag, valise, overnight bag, holdall, grip or Brit handgrip, Brit formerly portmanteau: She packed enough for a week's holiday into one small suitcase.
SUNDRIES|9|n.pl. knick-knacks, trinkets, small items, notions, miscellanea, miscellany, kickshaws, Brummagem, frippery, bric-å-brac, odds and ends: We might find a button for your shirt in a shop that sells sundries.
SUPERIOR|10|adj. 1 higher, higher-ranking, higher-level, higher-class, higher-calibre, upper, upper-level, upper-class, loftier, nobler, better; of a higher order or status or standing, Colloq classier, tonier: He was reported to his superior officer. 2 high-class, elevated, first-rate, distinguished, exceptional, excellent, preferred, choice, select, ÷litist, outstanding, superlative, matchless, unequalled, peerless, nonpareil, sterling, supreme, fine, noteworthy, notable, worthy, estimable: Kenneth has had the benefit of a superior education. 3 See supercilious, above. --n. 4 See supervisor, below.
SUPPLANT|6|v. replace, displace, oust, turn out, eject, remove, expel, dismiss, unseat, supersede, substitute, exchange: The council should be supplanted by a new group more sympathetic to the needs of the people.
SUPPOSED|7|adj. 1 alleged, assumed, putative, reputed, presumed, hypothetical, theoretical, theorized, imagined, suppositious, supposititious: Her supposed drug addiction turned out to be a myth. 2 obliged, expected, required; meant, intended: You were supposed to return my key. What is that supposed to mean?
SUPPRESS|4|v. 1 end, discontinue, cut off, cease, stop, terminate, put an end to, halt, prohibit, preclude, prevent, repress, censor, forbid, interdict, block, obstruct, withhold, stifle, inhibit, hinder, arrest: They have been unable to suppress the publication of the book. 2 put down, quell, crush, squelch, quash, subdue, check, stamp out, snuff out, smother, extinguish, quench, crack down on: The uprising was suppressed with the shooting of the students. 3 keep down, control, keep under control, keep or hold in check, restrain, hold in or back, repress, cover up, conceal, hide, keep quiet or secret, mute, muffle, quiet, silence: Objections to the guest speaker were suppressed at the request of the university's chancellor.
SURPRISE|10|v. 1 shock, astound, astonish, amaze, disconcert, nonplus, dumbfound or dumfound, stagger, take aback, strike, hit, Colloq floor, bowl over, flabbergast, rock or set (someone) back on his or her or chiefly Brit their heels, Brit knock (someone) for six, US knock (someone) for a loop: What surprised me was her coolness in the face of danger. 2 take or catch unawares, catch red-handed or in the act or in flagrante delicto, catch napping or off guard, discover: When Samuel Johnson's wife found him with a maid, she said, 'Dr Johnson! I am surprised!', to which he replied, 'No, madam: you are amazed. I am surprised.' --n. 3 shock, astonishment, amazement, stupefaction, wonder, incredulity: Imagine my surprise to learn that I was being arrested. 4 blow, jolt, shocker, bolt from or US also out of the blue, bombshell, eye-opener: It came as a surprise to me that my sister was pregnant.
SURROUND|7|v. 1 encompass, encircle, envelop, enclose, hem in, ring: She likes being surrounded by flowers. Troops surrounded the building. --n. 2 environs, environment, surroundings, atmosphere, ambience or ambiance, setting: The formal gardens make a charming surround for the art gallery.
SUSPENSE|10|n. 1 uncertainty, indefiniteness, insecurity, doubt, irresolution, expectancy, indecision, not knowing: May I have the envelope please? - I cannot stand the suspense! 2 anxiety, tension, apprehension, nervousness, agitation, anxiousness, anticipation, expectation, excitement: A story that creates suspense for the reader is often suitable for film treatment.
SWEEPING|8|adj. 1 comprehensive, (all-)inclusive, general, extensive, universal, all-embracing, broad, widespread, wide(-ranging), far-ranging, blanket, umbrella, catholic, exhaustive, radical, thorough(-going), out-and-out, across the board, wholesale, Colloq wall-to-wall: We must institute sweeping reforms of the party before the election. 2 complete, total, overwhelming, decisive: The first team enjoyed a sweeping victory in track and field events.
SWELLING|6|n. enlargement, distension, tumescence, protuberance, bump, prominence, bulge, lump, excrescence, protrusion, tumour, node, nodule: It is a good idea to have any unexplained swelling examined by the doctor.
SWINGING|5|adj. fashionable, chic, up to date, modern, Colloq å-go-go, in the swim, with it, Chiefly Brit trendy, Slang hip, groovy, in the groove: That's what the swinging '60s were like in London.
SYBARITE|13|n. epicure, epicurean, hedonist, voluptuary, sensualist, aesthete, gastronome, gourmet, bon vivant, bon viveur, pleasure-seeker, playboy, jet-setter: These sybarites spend all their time and their parents' money in the fleshpots of the world.
SYMBOLIC|17|adj. Often, symbolic of. symbolical (of), tokening, betokening, emblematic (of), figurative, allegoric(al), typical (of), representative (of), symptomatic (of), characteristic (of), metaphoric(al), allusive (of), denotative (of), connotative (of), mnemonic (of): From ancient times the laurel, or bay, has been regarded as symbolic of praiseworthiness.
SYMMETRY|12|n. balance, proportion, evenness, order, orderliness, regularity, uniformity, congruity, congruousness, correspondence, agreement, harmony, consistency, equality: With the crudest of tools, the pyramid builders achieved incredible symmetry.
SYMPATHY|16|n. 1 compassion, commiseration, pity, concern, tenderness, empathy, understanding, solicitousness, warmth, tender-heartedness, warm-heartedness, Archaic ruth: We feel great sympathy for any child who loses a pet. 2 agreement, harmony, compatibility, rapport, concord, accord, fellow-feeling, congeniality, affinity, closeness, unity, communion, fellowship, camaraderie: It is amazing that there can be so much sympathy between two such different people.
SYNOPSIS|13|n. summary, condensation, abridgement, epitomization, outline, abstract, digest, pr÷cis, epitome, compendium, conspectus, aperúu, r÷sum÷: He was assigned to write a ten-page synopsis of a 600-page book.
TABULATE|10|v. systematize, organize, order, group, list, arrange, classify, categorize, rate, grade, catalogue, codify, pigeon-hole, sort, assort, index, itemize; record, note: We shall report the results of the poll as soon as they have been tabulated.
TACITURN|6|adj. silent, uncommunicative, mum, mute, reticent, reserved, uncommunicative, unforthcoming, tight-lipped, close-lipped, untalkative, quiet: Even when he was small, Chris was quite taciturn, saying little but evidently thinking much.
TACTICAL|12|adj. artful, clever, cunning, shrewd, adroit, strategic, skilful, adept, politic, smart, tactful: The general was noted for his dazzling strategies and tactical genius.
TACTLESS|8|adj. coarse, boorish, uncivilized, unsophisticated, rough, rude, uncouth, discourteous, ungentlemanly, unladylike, crude, gruff, bluff, abrupt, blunt, brusque, impertinent, disrespectful, uncivil, impolite, insensitive, awkward, bungling, clumsy, maladroit, inept, undiplomatic, thoughtless, gauche, unskilful, impolitic, imprudent, inconsiderate, injudicious, indiscreet, unwise: It was pretty tactless of him to ask her out in front of his ex-girlfriend.
TALENTED|9|adj. gifted, accomplished, brilliant, skilled, skilful, masterful, expert, adept, adroit, dexterous, deft, clever, good, polished, proficient, first-rate, top-drawer, excellent, Colloq ace, crack, top-notch, Brit wizard, whizzo, US crackerjack: Leslie is the most talented player in the school hockey team.
TALISMAN|10|n. amulet, charm, tiki, fetish or fetich, ju-ju, periapt, abraxas; wishbone, rabbit's foot, Brit merry thought: He was given a talisman that was supposed to protect its wearer from bad luck.
TANGIBLE|6|adj. material, real, physical, corporeal, bodily, somatic, solid, concrete, touchable, tactile, manifest, palpable, evident, actual, substantial, visible, seeable, discernible, perceptible, ponderable, objective, ostensive: Leaving aside intangibles like taste, smell, and colour, the important tangible characteristic of food is texture.
TASTEFUL|11|adj. in good taste, decorous, refined, finished, tactful, polite, polished, restrained, correct, harmonious, fitting, fit, proper, discriminating, aesthetic, discriminative, fastidious, cultivated, comme il faut, elegant, graceful, charming: Though a bit shabby, her clothes were demure and tasteful.
TATTERED|7|adj. ragged, torn, shredded, rent, threadbare: Above the altar in the chapel hang the tattered standards of the regiment, dating from the Crimean War.
TEMPLATE|12|n. templet, pattern, mould, guide, model, die: The work on the lathe is matched to the template.
TEMPTING|9|adj. 1 seductive, enticing, inviting, alluring, captivating, attractive, tantalizing, appealing, irresistible, titillating; fetching, winsome, prepossessing, ravishing, voluptuous, sensuous, Colloq sexy, US foxy: They made her a very tempting offer which she found hard to refuse. He was continually distracted by thoughts of tempting young girls. 2 appetizing, mouth-watering, delicious, savoury, delectable, succulent, luscious, toothsome: Why does food always look most tempting when I am on a diet?
TENACITY|9|n. 1 tenaciousness, persistence, doggedness, perseverance, pertinacity, determination, grit, diligence, resoluteness, resolution, purposefulness, resolve, staunchness, steadfastness, stamina, assiduity, sedulousness, strength, strong-mindedness, unshakeability or unshakability, obstinacy, intransigence, stubbornness, obduracy, inflexibility, rigidity, firmness, uncompromisingness, Colloq US sand, stick-to-it-iveness: He persisted with the tenacity of the English bulldog. 2 tenaciousness, cohesiveness, strength, power, toughness, resilience; adhesiveness, stickiness, gumminess, glueyness, mucilaginousness, glutinousness, viscousness, viscidity, US cling: The texture of the surfaces affects the tenacity of the bonding cement.
TENDENCY|14|n. inclination, bent, leaning, disposition, propensity, predisposition, proclivity, predilection, susceptibility, proneness, readiness, partiality, affinity, bias, drift, direction, trend, movement: Brian has always had a tendency to being overweight. The particles exhibit a tendency to align themselves north and south.
TERRIBLE|3|adj. 1 bad, serious, grave, severe, acute, distressing, disagreeable, nasty, foul, unbearable, dreadful, loathsome, hideous, vile, intolerable, awful, Colloq rotten, lousy, beastly: I've had a terrible virus. 2 bad, remorseful, regretful, rueful, sorry, contrite, ashamed, conscience-stricken, guilty, distressed, dreadful, awful, Colloq rotten, lousy, beastly: I felt terrible having to tell the neighbours about their cat. 3 unhappy, unpleasant, disagreeable, awful, miserable, joyless, wretched, unfortunate, Colloq rotten, lousy, beastly: We spent an absolutely terrible evening at the theatre. 4 gruesome, grisly, macabre, gory, grotesque, brutal, savage, horrible, horrendous, terrifying, terrific, harrowing, horrid, horrifying, ghastly, frightening, frightful, unspeakable, monstrous, dread, terrible, appalling, shocking, alarming, awful, foul: The casualties that were arriving had the most terrible wounds. 5 disgusting, revolting, nauseating, nauseous, offensive, vomit-provoking, obnoxious, stomach-turning, stomach-churning, abominable, mephitic, noisome, noxious, loathsome, horrible, hideous, terrific, awful, evil, vile, rotten, awful: The compost heap was giving off the most terrible stench. 6 terrifying, frightening, frightful, fearsome, formidable, redoubtable, awesome, awe-inspiring, terrific: The animal gave a terrible roar and charged into the clearing.
TERRIBLY|11|adv. very, extremely, exceedingly, thoroughly, decidedly, unbelievably, incredibly, monumentally, outrageously, awfully, fabulously, Colloq frightfully: They were terribly apologetic about being late. I missed him terribly when he left.
TERRIFIC|11|adj. 1 See terrible, 4, 5, 6, above. 2 wonderful, marvellous, splendid, breathtaking, extraordinary, outstanding, magnificent, exceptional, unbelievable, incredible, mind-boggling, stupendous, superb, excellent, first-class, superior, Colloq great, ace, fantastic, fabulous, sensational, smashing, super: They really put on a terrific show.
THANKFUL|13|adj. grateful, appreciative, indebted, pleased, glad, obliged, obligated, under obligation, beholden to: I am most thankful that you came, doctor.
THEORIST|6|n. theoretician, speculator, hypothecator, hypothesizer, theorizer, philosopher, dreamer: Leave guesswork to the theorists: we need hard facts.
THEORIZE|15|v. guess, hypothesize, conjecture, speculate: It is logically illogical to theorize about articles of faith.
THINKING|7|adj. 1 rational, sensible, ratiocinative, intelligent, reasoning, reasonable; meditative, contemplative, reflective, philosophical, cogitative, pensive, thoughtful, intellectual: Any thinking person would have done the same as you. --n. 2 opinion, judgement, belief, thought, point of view, viewpoint, assessment, evaluation, theory, reasoning, conclusion, idea, philosophy, outlook: There is nothing either good or bad, but thinking makes it so. Do you concur with the current thinking on education?
THOROUGH|10|adj. 1 thoroughgoing, complete, downright, perfect, through-and-through, total, unmitigated, undiluted, unmixed, unalloyed, out-and-out, unqualified, sheer, utter, arrant, absolute, proper: I have rarely encountered such thorough stupidity. 2 exhaustive, extensive, painstaking, meticulous, assiduous, careful, scrupulous, particular, conscientious, methodical: Police conducted a thorough search but found nothing. 3 extensive, exhaustive, detailed, in-depth, comprehensive, full, complete, all-inclusive, total, all-embracing, encyclopedic or encyclopaedic, universal, A-to-Z, Colloq all-out: We need someone who has a thorough knowledge of the terrain.
THREATEN|6|v. 1 intimidate, menace, terrorize, daunt, cow, bully, browbeat, warn, caution: The headmaster threatened those who misbehaved with the most dire punishment. 2 imperil, put at risk, endanger, jeopardize, put in jeopardy: All life is threatened if the environment is not better looked after. 3 impend, loom; augur, portend, presage, forebode: The creatures crawl into their burrows if danger threatens. The gathering clouds threatened rain.
THUMPING|7|adj. 1 great, huge, colossal, stupendous, gigantic, enormous, immense, monumental, massive, titanic, elephantine, behemoth, gargantuan, mammoth, jumbo, Colloq whopping, thundering, walloping: That is the biggest thumping beach ball I have ever seen! That was a thumping lie. 2 complete, utter, unmitigated, 24-carat, perfect: Anyone who would turn down a salary increase must be a thumping idiot.
TICKLISH|4|adj. 1 uncertain, unsteady, unsure, unstable, unsettled, fickle, touch-and-go, touchy: Power that relies on the sword has a ticklish basis. 2 delicate, precarious, risky, hazardous, dangerous, critical, thorny, fragile, awkward: As the canoe drifted towards the waterfall, we found ourselves in a very ticklish predicament. 3 delicate, sensitive, hypersensitive, difficult, touchy, prickly: Cornelia is a bit ticklish on the subject of her holiday plans.
TIMELESS|8|adj. eternal, everlasting, immortal, undying, endless, unending, ceaseless, abiding, deathless, ageless, changeless, unchanged, immutable, unchanging, permanent, indestructible: He was enraptured by the timeless beauty of the heavens.
TIRELESS|6|adj. energetic, vital, vigorous, dynamic, spirited, lively, indefatigable, hardworking, industrious, untiring, unflagging, unfaltering, unfailing, persistent, dogged, tenacious, pertinacious, persevering, staunch, sedulous, unwavering, unswerving, undeviating, steady, steadfast, resolute, determined: We all appreciate the honorary secretary's tireless efforts on behalf of our fund-raising this year.
TIRESOME|10|adj. 1 boring, dull, fatiguing, humdrum, monotonous, flat, tedious, wearisome, tiring, uninteresting, insipid, bland, dry-as-dust, fatiguing, soporific, hypnotic: Ibsen wrote plays that actors love and audiences find tiresome. 2 irritating, irksome, vexing, vexatious, annoying, bothersome, exasperating, trying, disagreeable, troublesome, unpleasant: I wish she would take her tiresome problems elsewhere.
TOILSOME|10|adj. arduous, laborious, tough, hard, difficult, strenuous, burdensome, onerous, back-breaking, exhausting, fatiguing, tiring, enervating, wearying, draining: After a toilsome ascent we finally reached the first camp.
TOLERATE|8|v. 1 stand (for), allow, permit, bear, suffer, brook, countenance, abide, admit, indulge, concede, sanction, swallow, stomach, turn a blind eye to, Colloq put up with, Brit stick: The teacher refused to tolerate any more misbehaviour. 2 bear, stand, submit to, endure, weather, take, accept, undergo: Tests show that the product can tolerate considerable wear and tear.
TORTUOUS|5|adj. 1 twisted, twisting, winding, wandering, serpentine, turning, crooked, sinuous, bent, curled, curling, curved, curvy, curvilinear, flexuous, anfractuous, convoluted, involuted, zigzag, maze-like, mazy, labyrinthine: They followed a tortuous trail through the jungle. 2 roundabout, indirect, devious, intricate, involved, unstraightforward, complicated, ambiguous, ambagious, circuitous, warped, crooked, tricky, misleading, deceptive: We could not help being intrigued by the tortuous Machiavellianism of the scheme.
TOTALITY|11|n. total, aggregate, sum (total), whole, entirety, beginning and end, alpha and omega, be-all and end-all: The totality of his interests lies in watching soap operas on TV.
TOUCHING|3|adj. moving, stirring, emotional, tender, poignant, pathetic, soul-stirring, heart-rending, heart-breaking, sad, pitiful, distressing, distressful: The most touching scene is the one where the boy meets his father for the first time.
TOWERING|8|adj. 1 lofty, tall, high, soaring, outstanding, elevated, sky-scraping, sky-high, great, impressive, imposing, huge, gigantic, supreme, superior, paramount, extraordinary, unmatched, unequally, unrivalled, unparalleled, unsurpassed: The towering American economy dominated the world for decades after World War II. 2 violent, fiery, burning, passionate, excessive, vehement, intense, consuming, mighty, overwhelming, unrestrained, immoderate, inordinate, intemperate, extreme, colossal, enormous: Every time she mentioned Valentino, he went into a towering rage.
TRACTION|10|n. grip, gripping power, drag, purchase, friction, adhesion: Unable to get any traction on the ice, the car skidded off the road.
TRANQUIL|6|adj. calm, serene, placid, quiet, peaceful, still, smooth, unagitated, halcyon, relaxed; unruffled, sedate, steady, regular, even, dispassionate, self-possessed, cool, self-controlled, cool-headed, unexcited, undisturbed, untroubled, unperturbed: He often thought back to the tranquil, sultry summer days of his youth. How can Eleanor be so tranquil when everything about her is so chaotic?
TRANSACT|10|v. do, carry on or out, conduct, manage, handle, negotiate, transact, administer, discharge, perform, enact, settle, conclude, complete, finish: We are flying to Frankfurt today to transact some business.
TRANSFER|11|v. 1 move, transport, convey, remove, carry, take, deliver, bring, transmit, cart, haul, shift, hand (on or over), turn over, give, pass (on or along or over): The documents will be transferred to you today. --n. 2 move, conveyance, transmittal, transmission, delivery, change: The papers documenting the transfer of the property are here.
TRANSFIX|18|v. 1 pin, fix, impale, skewer, nail, pierce, spear, spike, spit, stick: The shrike, or butcher-bird, transfixes its prey on a thorn, then picks its bones clean. 2 enrapture, galvanize, electrify, hypnotize, mesmerize, rivet,,fascinate, bewitch, enchant, ensorcel, engross, root to the spot, stun, paralyse, Colloq stop dead (in one's tracks): The felon stood transfixed with terror as the judge pronounced sentence.
TRANSMIT|10|v. 1 send, transfer, convey, communicate, pass on, deliver, forward, dispatch or despatch; post, ship, cable, radio, telegraph, fax, telex, telephone, phone, Chiefly US and Canadian mail, Colloq wire: Your message was transmitted last night. 2 pass or go through, pass on, send, put, direct, conduct, channel: The mirror transmits the light through this filter.
TRAVERSE|11|v. 1 cross, criss-cross, travel or pass or move over or through, walk, cover, travel (over), roam, wander, range, tramp, tour: He has traversed the country from end to end innumerable times. 2 cross, criss-cross, go across; lie or extend across or athwart, bridge, intersect: The road traverses the river several times at Newtown. 3 oppose, cross, thwart, go or act against, go or act in opposition or counter to, conflict (with), controvert, contravene, counter, obstruct, contradict, gainsay, deny: The policies of today seem to traverse those set forth only last year. 4 examine, look into, scrutinize, inspect, investigate, review, study, look at, consider, contemplate, scan, look over, check, survey, reconnoitre, observe: Certain areas of knowledge are seldom traversed by scholars.
TREASURE|8|n. 1 wealth, riches, money, fortune, valuables, cash, cache, hoard: The existence of the treasure came to light only last week. 2 pride (and joy), delight, joy, darling, ideal, apple of (one's) eye, Colloq jewel, gem, prize, find, catch: Kathy is a treasure and I don't know what we did before we hired her. --v. 3 hold dear, cherish, value, prize, esteem, rate or value highly: We treasure the signed letter that Churchill wrote to my father. I treasure every moment we can spend together.
TREASURY|11|n. exchequer, bank, cache, resources, funds, money(s): There was not enough money in the treasury to pay for the scheme. The Treasury indicated their concern at the current state of the economy.
TRIBUNAL|10|n. court (of justice), bar, bench, judiciary, Inquisition, Star Chamber: Should he be tried before a judicial tribunal or pilloried by the tribunal of public opinion?
TRICKERY|9|n. chicanery, deception, deceit, guile, shrewdness, craftiness, slyness, shiftiness, evasiveness, artfulness, artifice, craft, imposture, swindling, knavery, duplicity, double-dealing, fraud, cheating, Colloq hanky-panky, skulduggery, funny or monkey business, jiggery-pokery: He separated her from her money by trickery.
TRIFLING|8|adj. trivial, insignificant, unimportant, puny, minor, paltry, slight, petty, inconsequential, frivolous, superficial, incidental, negligible, commonplace, inconsiderable, shallow, valueless, worthless, US and Canadian picayune, Colloq piddling: Their contribution to musical scholarship has been trifling.
TRUSTING|5|adj. trustful, unsuspicious, confiding, confident, unsuspecting; naìve, innocent, gullible, incautious, credulous: It is a good thing that her husband has a trusting nature. Samantha might be a little too trusting and could easily be deceived.
TRUTHFUL|9|adj. true, accurate, factual, veracious, true to life, honest, realistic, reliable, faithful, trustworthy, straightforward, candid, frank, sincere, earnest, forthright, unvarnished, unembellished: He gave a truthful account of his experiences in the jungle.
TURNCOAT|10|n. renegade, traitor, betrayer, deserter, fifth-columnist, double agent, apostate, tergiversator, defector, backslider, Vicar of Bray, US Benedict Arnold, Colloq snake in the grass: Labour members who voted with the Tories on the issue were branded turncoats.
TURNOVER|11|n. gross (revenue), (total) business, volume: Although turnover increased by ten per cent, profits were down by two per cent.
TWILIGHT|8|n. 1 dusk, sunset, gloaming, sundown, half-light, crepuscule or crepuscle: We enjoyed dinner at twilight on the terrace overlooking the sea. 2 decline, wane, waning, ebb, downturn, down-swing, slump, decay, weakening, declination, diminution: Even at the twilight of his career, Jonas enjoyed the respect of his colleagues. 3 Twilight of the Gods. Gætterdämmerung, Ragnaræk or Ragnarok: The world ends at the Twilight of the Gods, only to be born anew. --adj. 4 evening, crepuscular, dimming, darkening, darkish, darksome, shadowy, shady, dim, dark, obscure, sombre, gloomy, Literary darkling: The Nymphs in twilight shade of tangled thickets mourn. 5 twilight zone. limbo: He lives in the twilight zone, unable to distinguish reality from fantasy.
TWOFACED|17|adj. double-dealing, hypocritical, duplicitous, dissembling, deceitful, Janus-faced, treacherous, dishonest, untrustworthy, insincere, scheming, designing, crafty, Machiavellian, sly, perfidious, lying, mendacious: That two-faced liar told you one story and me another!
ULCEROUS|7|adj. ulcerative, cancerous, cankerous, festering, ulcerated, ulcerative, suppurating, suppurative, gangrenous, septic, Technical furuncular, furunculous, necrotic, necrosed, sphacelated: The wound is in an ulcerous condition and requires immediate surgery.
ULTERIOR|8|adj. 1 hidden, concealed, covert, secret, unrevealed, undisclosed, unexpressed, private, personal, underlying, surreptitious, underhand(ed): She had an ulterior motive for arriving early. 2 outside, beyond, further, remote, remoter: What you propose is ulterior to our immediate plan.
ULTIMATE|10|adj. 1 final, last, terminating, terminal, end, eventual, conclusive, concluding, decisive, deciding: The ultimate outcome will not be known till next week. Who is the ultimate authority in such matters? 2 final, maximum, highest, greatest, supreme, utmost, paramount: Her ultimate goal is to win the gold medal. 3 elemental, basic, fundamental, underlying, primary, essential, final: He believes that the ultimate truths were set down in Scripture. 4 remotest, furthest, farthest, extreme, uttermost, last, final: The ultimate stage of the experiment will be at a distance of five light-years.
UMBRELLA|10|n. 1 parasol; Colloq chiefly Brit gamp, Brit brolly, US bumbershoot: You will need an umbrella today. 2 protection, cover, coverage, aegis, shield, screen, patronage, agency: What benefits are included under the umbrella of this policy?
UNAWARES|11|adv. 1 unexpectedly, abruptly, by surprise, suddenly, off (one's) guard: We caught the sentry unawares. 2 inadvertently, unconsciously, unintentionally, unknowingly, unwittingly, by mistake, mistakenly, by accident, accidentally, in an unguarded moment: She had betrayed her closest friend unawares.
UNDERCUT|11|v. 1 undermine, excavate, hollow out, cut out or away, gouge out: If you undercut the roadway it will collapse. 2 underprice, undercharge, sacrifice, sell cheaply or at a loss, undersell: The supermarkets undercut prices and put the independent grocers out of business.
UNDERDOG|11|n. loser, scapegoat, victim; vanquished, defenceless; Colloq fall guy, little fellow or guy: It has always been our policy to fight for the underdog.
UNIVERSE|11|n. 1 cosmos, creation, macrocosm: What arrogance makes man believe that in all the vast universe God pays him any heed? 2 world, bailiwick, sphere, province, domain, circle, milieu, territory, corner, quarter, microcosm: Such behaviour may be acceptable in her tiny universe.
UNLAWFUL|14|adj. illegal, illicit, against the law, illegitimate, under the table, under the counter, criminal, felonious; outlawed, banned, prohibited, forbidden, interdicted, disallowed, proscribed, verboten; unauthorized, unlicensed, unsanctioned: Unlawful payments had been made to councillors. Gambling has been declared unlawful in that county.
UNLIKELY|15|adj. 1 improbable, doubtful, dubious, remote, unthinkable, unimaginable, inconceivable, implausible: His story was unlikely, but she decided to believe him. It is not unlikely that he will come even if we ask him to stay away. 2 unseemly, inappropriate, unfit, unfitting, unsuitable, uncongenial, objectionable, unbecoming, unacceptable, unattractive, distasteful: Claire had seldom seen a more unlikely prospect for a husband. 3 unpropitious, unpromising, inauspicious: The tiny shop seemed an unlikely place to find a great treasure.
UNOPENED|11|adj. closed, shut: The book lay, unopened, on the bedside table.
UNSEEMLY|11|adj. 1 improper, unrefined, unbecoming, indecorous, indelicate, unbecoming, unladylike, ungentlemanly, undignified, in poor or bad taste, disreputable, discreditable, risqu÷, naughty, indecent, shameful, offensive, lewd, lascivious, obscene, rude, coarse: Out of desperation, they engaged in some unseemly activities. 2 impolitic, unwise, imprudent, inapt, inappropriate, inopportune, inconvenient, uncalled-for, unsuitable, improper, inadvisable, ill-advised, unbefitting, unfitting, out of place or keeping, awkward, inauspicious, inexpedient, unfortunate, ill-timed, untimely: It would be unseemly for you to become involved with such a notorious individual.
UNSOCIAL|6|adj. unsociable, unfriendly, cool, cold, chilly, aloof, uncongenial, unamiable, unforthcoming, standoffish, inhospitable, withdrawn, reserved, solitary, retiring, distant, detached, reclusive, hermitic(al), eremitic(al), anchoritic or anchoretic; antisocial, misanthropic, hostile: Erwin, who prefers to be alone, is definitely unsocial. Donna, who despises other people, is unsocial for different reasons.
UNSTABLE|5|adj. 1 changeable, variable, unsteady, inconstant, inconsistent, insecure, capricious, fickle, irregular, unpredictable, unreliable, erratic, volatile, fluctuating, flighty, mercurial, vacillating, tergiversating, indecisive, undecided, irresolute, indefinite, unsettled: He seems too unstable to maintain a long-standing relationship. 2 See unsound, 1, above.
UNTIRING|5|adj. unflagging, determined, indefatigable, dogged, persevering, perseverant, tireless, unwearying, unwearied, dogged, dedicated, unfailing, unfaltering, steady: Kim has always been an untiring perfectionist.
UNTOWARD|12|adj. 1 adverse, unfavourable, unpropitious, discouraging, inopportune, unpromising, bleak, inauspicious, bad, unfortunate: The rainstorm created untoward conditions, causing the river to rise dangerously. 2 unbecoming, unfitting, awkward, inappropriate, unapt, unsuitable, improper, impolite, rude, boorish, ungentlemanly, unladylike, indecorous, indelicate, unwarranted, uncalled-for, unrefined, unseemly, unwise, imprudent, undiplomatic, tactless, untactful, ill-conceived, silly, foolish, stupid, ill-timed, vexatious, vexing, irritating, annoying: Charles made some untoward remark about the size of Sandra's feet.
UNWASHED|10|adj. 1 dirty, uncleaned, unclean, uncleansed: Separate your personal things from the unwashed laundry in the hamper. --n. 2 the (great) unwashed. Derogatory the rabble, the masses, the mob, the plebs, people (at large or in general), the population, the populace, the man or woman in the street, Mr (& Mrs) Average, the working class(es), most people, the (silent) majority, US John Q. Public: The effort to sell expensive brandy to the great unwashed failed miserably.
UNWIELDY|15|adj. awkward, clumsy, bulky, oversized, cumbersome, ungainly, unmanageable, unhandy, unmanoeuvrable: The huge oil tankers, though economical, often proved unwieldy in the ports they visited.
UNWONTED|12|adj. infrequent, unusual, uncustomary, uncommon, unfamiliar, unprecedented, rare, singular, atypical, abnormal, peculiar, odd, strange, irregular, unconventional, unorthodox: All this unwonted physical exercise made them exhausted by evening.
UNWORTHY|12|adj. 1 unequal, meritless, unmerited, substandard, inferior, second-rate, menial, puny, petty, paltry, unprofessional, mediocre, despicable, contemptible, dishonourable, ignoble, disreputable, discreditable, unqualified, ineligible, unfit, undeserving: I consider Patrick an unworthy opponent. 2 unworthy of. unbecoming to, inappropriate to, unsuitable for, unfit for, out of character for, inconsistent with or for, out of place with or for, incongruous with or for: That sort of petty haggling is unworthy of your position and of you.
UPHEAVAL|16|n. upset, unrest, commotion, change, cataclysm, disruption, disturbance, disorder, confusion, chaos, furore, or US furor: Those were times of drastic political upheaval in Asia.
UPRISING|7|n. rebellion, revolt, mutiny, revolution, insurrection, rising, putsch, coup (d'÷tat): The government quelled the uprising with water cannons and tear gas.
VAGABOND|15|n. 1 gypsy, tramp, vagrant, wayfarer, rover, wanderer, itinerant, migrant, bird of passage, rolling stone, beachcomber, derelict, Chiefly US and Canadian hobo, Australian swagman, Colloq US bum, Slang US bindle-stiff: The police interviewed every vagabond they could find for a clue to the murder. --adj. 2 vagrant, wayfaring, roving, wandering, itinerant, migrant, derelict, nomadic, gypsy, rambling, roaming, drifting, peripatetic, transient, peregrinating: When will he give up his vagabond ways and settle down?
VARIABLE|8|adj. changeable, protean, changing, inconstant, varying, wavering, mercurial, fickle, capricious, unsteady, unfixed, unstable, uncertain, undependable, unpredictable, fluctuating, vacillating, mutable, chameleonic, chameleon-like: The weather can be quite variable depending on the season.
VARIANCE|13|n. 1 variation, difference, disparity, discrepancy, disagreement, deviation, inconsistency, divergence, incongruity: The monitor takes account of minute variance in blood pressure. 2 disagreement, misunderstanding, discord, difference (of opinion), dissension, contention, dispute, dissent, controversy, quarrel, conflict, argument, debate, lack of harmony, falling out, schism, rift: There has never been any variance between us about the disciplining of the children. 3 at variance. in dispute, in disagreement, quarrelling, in contention, in conflict: The workforce was at variance with management in the matter of day care.
VELOCITY|12|n. speed, swiftness, rapidity, fleetness, quickness, briskness, alacrity, celerity, pace, rate of speed, miles per hour, m.p.h., kilometres per hour, km/hr: Our velocity slowed as we neared the outer atmosphere.
VENDETTA|10|n. (blood) feud, quarrel, dispute, conflict, rivalry, enmity, bitterness, hatred, ill will, bad blood: Fifty years after leaving Palermo, the vendetta between their families still persisted.
VENERATE|11|v. respect, honour, esteem, revere, reverence, worship, hallow, adore, admire, look up to: Schweitzer was widely venerated for his charitable works.
VENEREAL|11|adj. sexual; genital; social, sexually transmitted, gonorrhoeal or gonorrhoeic, syphilitic: Reports indicate that venereal disease has been on the decline since the advent of AIDS.
VENOMOUS|10|adj. 1 poisonous, deadly, toxic, dangerous, life-threatening, lethal: There are few venomous snakes in the British Isles. 2 poisonous, virulent, malicious, malevolent, malign, malignant, savage, baleful, envenomed, hostile, antagonistic, spiteful, splenetic, acerbic, rancorous, bitter, embittered, mean, vicious: That venomous little man caused me to lose my job.
VERBATIM|15|adj. 1 word-for-word, verbatim et literatim (= 'word-for-word and letter for letter'), literal, exact, precise, accurate, faithful, strict: This verbatim translation may be accurate but all the poetic expressiveness is lost. --adv. 2 word for word, verbatim et literatim, literally, exactly, precisely, accurately, faithfully, to the letter, strictly: To make certain there would be no misunderstanding, the speech was copied verbatim.
VICINITY|12|n. area, neighbourhood, locale, vicinage, environs, locality, precincts, purlieus, territory: All people living in the vicinity of the nuclear plant were tested for radiation poisoning.
VIGILANT|12|adj. watchful, alert, sharp, observant, guarded, circumspect, attentive, wakeful, cautious, careful, wary, chary, on one's guard, on the alert, on the lookout, eagle-eyed, hawk-eyed, Argus-eyed, on the qui vive, on one's toes, with one's eyes open, Colloq with one's eyes skinned or peeled: As long as we remain vigilant, they will never be able to take us by surprise.
VIGOROUS|9|adj. energetic, active, vivacious, dynamic, brisk, lively, spirited, robust, strong, hardy, hale, hearty, vital, fit, lusty, stalwart, in good or fine fettle, spry, sprightly, resilient, Colloq peppy, full of pep, full of get-up-and-go, full of beans: At 63, he is just as vigorous as he was at 40.
VIOLENCE|13|n. 1 (brute or physical) force, might, mightiness, power, strength, severity, intensity, energy, vehemence, ferocity, ferociousness, fierceness, fury, vigour; destructiveness, virulence: The violence of the storm continued unabated throughout the night. The violence of the seizures diminished after she was given the medication. 2 bestiality, brutality, barbarity, savagery, cruelty, bloodthirstiness, wildness, ferocity, frenzy, fury, passion, fierceness, vehemence, murderousness: The marauders attacked with a violence that terrified the villagers. 3 do violence to. a harm, damage, injure: The scandal did violence to her reputation. Humphrey's singing could do violence to any melody. b warp, twist, distort: In reporting that her views are antifeminist, the newspaper did violence to the import of her speech.
VIRTUOSO|11|n. 1 master, maestro, expert, genius, talent, prodigy, old hand, Colloq wizard, whiz or whizz or wiz, whiz-kid or whizz-kid, Chiefly Brit dab hand, US maven or mavin: Walter is a veritable virtuoso on the harmonica. --adj. 2 masterful, masterly, expert, talented, brilliant, dazzling, bravura, prodigious, excellent, superb, extraordinary, exceptional, superior, first-rate, superlative, matchless, peerless, sterling, marvellous, remarkable: His virtuoso performance of the B minor sonata won him a standing ovation.
VIRTUOUS|8|adj. 1 moral, honourable, ethical, honest, good, upstanding, high-principled, upright, righteous, pure, uncorrupted, incorruptible, just, fair, right-minded, fair-minded, high-minded, scrupulous, trustworthy: Thomas has proved himself a virtuous young man. 2 chaste, innocent, virginal, virgin; decent, proper, unsullied, faithful, true, uncorrupted: A virtuous woman makes a virtuous wife.
VIRULENT|11|adj. 1 lethal, life-threatening, deadly, fatal, pernicious, septic, poisonous, toxic, baleful, noxious, dangerous, harmful, injurious, detrimental, deleterious, destructive, unhealthy, unwholesome: He died from a virulent form of dysentery that he caught in the tropics. 2 vicious, venomous, bitter, spiteful, malignant, malign, malicious, malevolent, poisonous, splenetic, acrimonious, acerbic, acid, mordant, sarcastic, nasty, trenchant, caustic, antagonistic, hateful, hostile: What did I do to the reviewer of The Herald to merit such a virulent review?
VITALITY|14|n. 1 energy, life, life-force, vigour, power, intensity, force, liveliness,, vivacity, vivaciousness, animation, sparkle, spiritedness, exuberance, Colloq zing, pep, pizazz, oomph, get-up-and-go, zip, vim: My great-grandfather has the vitality of a forty-year-old. 2 stamina, hardiness, endurance, energy, strength, robustness: Does this society have the vitality needed to take it into the next decade?
VITALIZE|20|v. stimulate, activate, arouse, vivify, animate, awaken, inspirit, invigorate, enliven, inspire, revive, rejuvenate, innervate, energize, fortify, reinvigorate, renew, refresh, charge (up): The tonic vitalized him to the point where he felt young again.
VOCALIST|13|n. singer, soloist, choirboy, choir girl, choir member, chorus-boy, chorus girl, chorus-member, chorister, caroller; diva, prima donna, chanteuse; cantor, crooner; Colloq songbird, canary, thrush, nightingale: It was sung by a female vocalist with a high-pitched girlish voice.
VOCATION|13|n. calling, trade, m÷tier, business, profession, occupation, career, employment, job, pursuit, life's-work, life-work, line (of work), Slang bag, thing: I left university with no particular vocation in mind.
VOLATILE|11|adj. 1 vaporizing, evaporable, evaporative: A volatile solvent, which evaporates quickly, is the vehicle for thermosetting plastics. 2 changeable, fickle, flighty, inconstant, erratic, restless, unstable, variable, mercurial, capricious: She was so volatile that one could never predict what she would do next. 3 explosive, hair-trigger, sensitive, charged, eruptive, tense, tension-ridden: Be careful of Christine's volatile temper.
VOLITION|11|n. (free) will, choice, option, choosing, choice, discretion, preference: She pursued a course of her own volition.
WARDROBE|14|n. 1 (collection or stock of) clothing or clothes or attire or apparel: At the time, my entire wardrobe consisted of a pair of jeans, a shirt, and a dinner suit. 2 clothes-press, closet, clothes-cupboard: In her wardrobe they found more than three thousand pairs of shoes.
WARRANTY|12|n. guarantee, assurance, promise, commitment, covenant, undertaking, agreement, pledge, bond: There is a maker's warranty that repairs of any defects will be made at no cost to the buyer.
WASHEDUP|12|adj. finished, through, failed, done for, played out, over (and done with), Slang kaput, fini: After that last fiasco, he's no more than a washed-up has-been.
WASTEFUL|14|adj. extravagant, spendthrift, profligate, prodigal, lavish, improvident, unthrifty, uneconomical, overindulgent, open-handed, free-handed, penny wise and pound foolish: It was very wasteful of you to buy me that expensive jewellery.
WATCHMAN|11|n. (security) guard, sentinel, sentry, watch, night-watchman, custodian, caretaker; watchdog: After retiring from the police, he worked as a watchman.
WEAKLING|12|n. milksop, baby, mollycoddle, lightweight, namby-pamby, US and Canadian milquetoast, Colloq sissy or Brit also cissy, loser, cream puff, jellyfish, pushover, softie or softy, Slang wimp, twerp or twirp, US weak sister, schnook, schlemiel or schlemihl or shlemiel: If you count on a weakling like Geoffrey, nothing will ever get done.
WEAKNESS|13|n. 1 feebleness, frailty, fragility, delicacy, delicateness, vulnerability, infirmity, decrepitude: They discovered a weakness in the structure of the bridge, so it had to be closed. 2 incapacity, irresolution, irresoluteness, impotence, powerlessness, puniness: He is ashamed of his weakness in being unable to stop smoking. 3 weak point, foible, failing, fault, shortcoming, flaw, Achilles' heel, defect, imperfection, liability: Her one great weakness is her inability to deny her children anything. 4 soft spot, fondness, affection, liking, preference, bent, leaning, inclination, fancy, penchant, predilection, proneness, proclivity, predisposition, partiality, appreciation, appetite, sweet tooth, taste, eye: The two of them share a weakness for good food and wine.
WELLBRED|12|adj. well brought up, well-mannered, polite, decorous, mannerly, refined, courteous, cultivated, polished, cultured, gentlemanly, ladylike, elegant, suave, urbane, sophisticated, gracious, courtly, genteel, gallant, chivalrous: Jane prefers bikers to the well-bred gentlemen her mother selects for her.
WHIPPING|1|n. 1 beating, thrashing, lashing, flogging, horsewhipping, scourging, switching, caning, birching, flagellation, spanking: Once he had had a whipping, the boy would not misbehave again. 2 Nautical seizing, binding, tying, winding, fastening: The whipping will prevent the end of the line from unravelling.
WHOPPING|1|adj. 1 huge, great, enormous, colossal, gigantic, immense, tremendous, prodigious, monstrous, thumping, mammoth, massive, Brobdingnagian: With that whopping Great Dane of yours in the kitchen there's no room to move about. 2 flagrant, outrageous, extravagant, terrible, awful: Jones tells such whopping lies I don't know when to believe him.
WINDFALL|13|n. bonanza, godsend, stroke of (good) fortune, serendipitous find, boon, piece of (good) luck, jackpot, (lucky) strike: The sale of the house provided a windfall that saved them from imminent bankruptcy.
WITHDRAW|13|v. 1 draw back, retract, pull back, recoil, shrink back: He would suddenly withdraw into his cocoon whenever she said the name, 'Elsie'. 2 retract, recall, take back, cancel, rescind, recant, disavow, disclaim, abjure, void, annul, go back on, back down (on): If she doesn't withdraw that remark, I shall sue her for slander. 3 pull out, extract, remove, Technical retrude: Afterwards, she withdrew the knife, washed it, and replaced it in the rack. The dentist withdrew the bad tooth. 4 retire, retreat, go, repair: After dinner, we withdrew to the drawing-room for brandy and cigars. 5 leave, depart, go, make (oneself) scarce, absent (oneself), retire: We waited till the servants withdrew before exchanging news about Cora.
WITHHOLD|13|v. 1 hold or keep back, retain, reserve, restrain, control, repress, check, hide, conceal: He could withhold his anger no longer. 2 hold or keep back, deduct, retain, reserve: The company is required to withhold a percentage of wages and salaries for taxes.
WRECKAGE|5|n. debris, fragments, remains, rubble, ruin(s): The wreckage of the building is being searched for survivors.
WRETCHED|5|adj. 1 miserable, awful, terrible, atrocious, deplorable, Colloq lousy, rotten: We had the most wretched weather throughout our holiday. 2 unhappy, sad, miserable, woebegone, woeful, dismal, downhearted, heartbroken, broken-hearted, heartsick, dejected, depressed, melancholic, melancholy, mournful, disconsolate, inconsolable, doleful, cheerless, crestfallen, joyless, desolate: If you want to see a wretched human being, look at a boy whose dog is lost. 3 pitiable, pathetic, sorry, pitiful, hapless, hopeless, unfortunate, miserable: The poor in these tropical paradises are some of the most wretched people on earth. 4 vile, shameful, scurvy, underhand(ed), treacherous, contemptible, despicable, base, low, mean, paltry, mean-spirited, detestable: It was hard to see how the people could support such a wretched little demagogue.
YEOMANLY|16|adj. yeoman, workmanlike, useful, staunch, courageous, loyal, dedicated, faithful, steadfast, unswerving, unwavering, firm, sturdy, reliable, solid: Carruthers certainly did a yeomanly job on reorganizing the system.
YIELDING|9|adj. 1 pliant, flexile, flexible, pliable, soft, plastic, fictile, elastic, resilient, supple, springy, bouncy, spongy, rubbery: The frame is of a yielding material that gives way under pressure. 2 accommodating, docile, submissive, amenable, tractable, compliant, obedient, flexible, acquiescent, agreeable, obliging, manageable, manipulable: He wanted a wife with a yielding temperament who would tolerate his foibles.
ZEALOTRY|20|n. fanaticism, extremism, radicalism, bigotry, militantism, terrorism, single-mindedness, monomania, fervour, frenzy, hysteria, obsession, obsessiveness: Their attacks on innocent civilians show how far their zealotry can take them.
ABANDON|10|v. 1 give up or over, yield, surrender, leave, cede, let go, deliver (up), turn over, relinquish: I can see no reason why we should abandon the house to thieves and vandals. 2 depart from, leave, desert, quit, go away from: The order was given to abandon ship. 3 desert, forsake, jilt, walk out on: He even abandoned his fianc÷e. 4 give up, renounce; discontinue, forgo, drop, desist, abstain from: She abandoned cigarettes and whisky after the doctor's warning. --n. 5 recklessness, intemperance, wantonness, lack of restraint, unrestraint: He behaved with wild abandon after he received the inheritance.
ABIDING|7|adj. lasting, permanent, constant, steadfast, everlasting, unending, eternal, enduring, indestructible; unchanging, fast, hard and fast, fixed, firm, immutable, changeless: Her abiding love is a solace to him.
ABILITY|12|n. 1 adeptness, aptitude, facility, faculty, capacity, power, knack, proficiency, Colloq know-how: I have perceived your ability to manipulate situations to your own advantage. 2 talent, skill, cleverness, capacity, wit, gift, genius, capability: He has such extraordinary ability it is difficult to see why he doesn't accomplish more. 3 abilities. faculty, faculties, talent(s), gift(s), skill(s): Her abilities have made her one of the finest cellists of our time.
ABSENCE|11|n. 1 non-attendance, non-presence, non-appearance, truancy: This is Jason's third absence from class in a week. She runs the place in my absence. 2 lack, want, deficiency, non-existence; insufficiency, scantiness, paucity, scarcity, dearth: In the absence of new evidence, the matter must remain undecided.
ABUSIVE|12|adj. 1 insulting, scurrilous, vituperative, calumnious, offensive, slanderous, libellous, defamatory, censorious, opprobrious, disparaging, deprecatory, depreciatory, derogatory, derisory, derisive, reviling, vilifying, vituperative, reproachful; profane; rude, filthy, dirty, foul, vulgar, obscene, smutty, vile, thersitical: The Crown refuses to tolerate abusive satire directed at the king. If I hear another word of abusive language out of you, I'll wash out your mouth with soap! 2 perverted, misapplied, improper, wrong, incorrect; exploitive, exploitative, exploitatory; brutal, cruel, injurious, hurtful, harmful, destructive: Despite the abusive treatment of wives, married women commanded much respect. 3 corrupt, venal, dishonest, crooked: The politicians exercised abusive power over the townspeople.
ABYSMAL|14|adj. 1 awful, appalling, dreadful, terrible, profound: The government of Nero presented a spectacle of abysmal degradation. 2 abyssal, bottomless, profound, unfathomable, unfathomed: The abysmal depths have been plumbed in the diving bell.
ACCOUNT|5|v. 1 account for. explain, give a reason for, give or render a reckoning for, answer for, justify, reckon for: The treasurer has been able to account for every penny of expense. His desire to conceal his background accounts for his secrecy. --n. 2 calculation, accounting, reckoning, computation, (financial) statement; enumeration: The accounts show that the company has ample funds in reserve. Williams hasn't submitted his expense account for the trip. 3 interest, profit, advantage, benefit, favour; sake: Nigel turned his convalescence to good account by writing a best seller. Don't read the book on my account. 4 explanation, statement, description, report, recital, narrative, history, chronicle: The defendant gave a credible account of his whereabouts at the time of the crime. 5 consideration, use, worth, importance, consequence, note, value, merit; standing, significance, estimation, esteem: The committee decided that length of service is of some account in determining retirement pensions. 6 story, narration, narrative, report, tale, relation, description: Alice's account of the rabbit wearing a waistcoat is unbelievable. 7 take into account or take account of. notice, take note of, consider, take into consideration, allow for: In passing sentence, the judge took into account the child's poverty and the fact that it was Christmas time.
ACHIEVE|8|v. 1 accomplish, carry out, execute, succeed in, complete, fulfil, bring off or about; realize, effect: When the fund reaches its goal, we shall have achieved our purpose. 2 accomplish, attain, reach, gain, get, acquire, win, obtain: She achieved her ends by cheating and conniving.
ACQUIRE|7|v. get, obtain, gain, win, earn, procure, secure, come by or into; receive, come into possession of; buy, purchase: He acquired great wealth by marrying rich old dying widows.
ADDRESS|3|n. 1 speech, talk, discourse, oration, lecture; sermon: The Prime Minister's address to the nation was broadcast last night. 2 location, whereabouts: She couldn't write to me because she didn't have my address. --v. 3 speak or talk to; deliver or give a speech to; lecture: After the coup, the general addressed the crowd in the square. 4 greet, hail, accost, approach: She was addressing strangers in the street to ask their views on women's rights. 5 address oneself to. devote or direct or apply oneself to: After the holidays, I again addressed myself to studying for examinations.
ADVANCE|13|v. 1 move or put or push or go forward; approach: Man has advanced the frontier of physical science. The battalion advanced towards the fort with guns blazing. 2 further, promote, forward, help, aid, abet, assist, benefit, improve; contribute to: The terrorists' dynamiting of the school has done nothing to advance their cause. 3 go or move forward, move (onward), go on, proceed, get ahead: As people advance in life, they acquire what is better than admiration - judgement. 4 hasten, accelerate, speed: We have advanced the date of our departure from December to October. 5 move up, promote: In less than a year, Mrs Leland has been advanced from supervisor to manager of the production department. 6 prepay, lend: Could you advance me some money till pay-day? --n. 7 progress, development, progress, forward movement; improvement, betterment; headway: Who has done more for the advance of knowledge? 8 rise, increase, appreciation: Any advance in prices at this time would reduce our sales. 9 prepayment, deposit; loan: I cannot understand why George is always asking for an advance on his allowance. 10 in advance. a beforehand, ahead (of time), before: You will have to make reservations well in advance. b before, in front (of), ahead (of), beyond: The colonel rode in advance of the cavalry.
AFFLICT|7|v. affect, bother, distress, oppress, trouble, torment: Last winter's intense cold afflicted everyone, but those in the north especially.
AGITATE|8|v. 1 excite, arouse, rouse, move, perturb, stir up, disquiet, fluster, ruffle, rattle, disconcert, discomfit, unsettle, upset, rock, unnerve, shake (up), Colloq discombobulate: Rachel was agitated to learn of the bank's threat to foreclose on the mortgage. 2 push, press, campaign; promote: The miners have been agitating for better safety measures. 3 stir (up), churn, disturb, shake, roil: The calm lake was agitated by the motor boats.
ALCOHOL|12|n. spirits, liquor, the bottle, the cup that cheers, demon rum, John Barleycorn, Colloq booze, hard stuff, juice, moonshine, fire-water, Slang rot-gut, US and Canadian hooch: Alcohol and driving do not mix.
ALLEGED|7|adj. described, designated; claimed, avowed, stated; purported, so-called, suspected, supposed, assumed, presumed; hypothetical, conjectural: The press reported that the alleged assailant had confessed. He is awaiting trial for his alleged involvement in the bombing.
AMALGAM|12|n. mixture, blend, combination, alloy, mix, composite, admixture, amalgamation; compound: The population was an amalgam of original settlers and new immigrants.
AMAZING|15|adj. astonishing, astounding, surprising, wonderful, remarkable, extraordinary, marvellous, fabulous, stunning, dazzling, staggering, awesome: The Cossacks put on an amazing display of horsemanship.
AMIABLE|6|adj. friendly, well-disposed, kindly, kind, amicable, agreeable, congenial, genial, warm, winsome, winning, affable, agreeable, pleasant, obliging, tractable, approachable, benign, good-natured, good-hearted, kind-hearted; affectionate: Melissa is well named for her sweet and amiable disposition.
AMPLIFY|17|v. 1 broaden, widen, extend, increase, expand (on), enlarge (on), expatiate on, detail; add to, augment, supplement: Let no man comfort him But amplify his grief with bitter words. 2 exaggerate, overstate, magnify, stretch: The reports have amplified the number of horsemen slain in the encounter. 3 enlarge (on), elaborate (on), stretch, lengthen, detail, embellish, embroider: He amplifies every point in microscopic detail.
ANALYSE|10|v. 1 take apart or to pieces, separate, dissect, break down, anatomize: If we analyse these statistics for England and Wales, we find no pattern. The scientists are analysing the internal constitution of a glacier. 2 examine, investigate, study, scrutinize, interpret; assess, evaluate, critique, criticize, review; estimate, assay, test: We must first explicitly define and analyse the nature of the sample we found.
ANCIENT|5|adj. 1 old, bygone, past, former, earlier, Literary olden: In ancient times there were very few books. 2 old, antique, antediluvian, primitive, prehistoric, primeval, primordial, Noachian, Literary Ogygian: In those ancient days man had only just come down from the trees. 3 old, old-fashioned, archaic, time-worn, aged, ageing, obsolescent, antiquated, elderly, venerable, grey, hoary, superannuated, obsolete, fossil, fossilized: We were accosted by an ancient crone at the mouth of the cave.
ANIMATE|9|v. 1 activate, enliven, invigorate, stimulate, inspirit, excite, stir, vitalize, spark, vivify, revitalize, breathe life into, innervate: A little enthusiasm would have animated their dull relationship. 2 inspire, inspirit, stimulate, actuate, move, motivate, incite, rouse, arouse, excite, fire (up), encourage, energize, vitalize, spur (on or onwards): He spent the few minutes before the battle in animating his soldiers. --adj. 3 lively, spirited, vivacious, animated, quick: A courser more animate of eye, Of form more faultless never had been seen. 4 alive, moving, breathing, Archaic quick: Although they move, plants are not considered to be animate.
ANTIQUE|5|adj. 1 old, old-fashioned; antiquated, outmoded, pass÷, out of date, obsolete: She wore the antique clothing she had found in the trunk. --n. 2 collectable or collectible, collector's item, bibelot, objet d'art, objet de vertu, object or article of virtu, heirloom, curio, rarity: His hobby is collecting antiques.
ANXIETY|17|n. 1 solicitude, concern, uneasiness, disquiet, nervousness, worry, dread, angst, apprehension, foreboding: Philip began to feel genuine anxiety over Tanya's safety. 2 appetite, hunger, thirst, desire, eagerness, longing, ache, concern: It is every person's anxiety to obtain for himself the inestimable pearl of genuine knowledge.
ANXIOUS|11|adj. 1 troubled, uneasy, disquieted, uncertain, apprehensive; solicitous, concerned, worried, distressed, disturbed, nervous, tense, fretful, on edge, restless, edgy, perturbed, upset; wary, cautious, careful, watchful: She has been terribly anxious about the diagnosis. We were anxious for her safety. 2 desirous, eager, keen, enthusiastic, ardent, agog, avid, yearning, longing, aching, impatient: I was anxious to visit the Pitti Palace once again.
APPLAUD|6|v. 1 approve, express approval, clap, cheer, give (someone) a hand, Colloq root (for): The audience applauded when the villain was caught. 2 express approval of, praise, laud, hail, commend: Susan's parents applauded her decision to apply for university.
APPOINT|5|v. 1 fix, set, settle, determine, ordain, authorize, establish, destine, arrange, assign, allot, prescribe, decree: The time appointed for the execution has been delayed. 2 name, designate, nominate, elect; assign, delegate, commission, deputize; select, choose: I was delighted to have been appointed as chairman. 3 equip, fit out, furnish, decorate: They live comfortably in a well-appointed home in the suburbs.
ARDUOUS|5|adj. 1 laborious, difficult, hard, tough, strenuous, onerous, burdensome, back-breaking, painful, Formal operose; tiring, exhausting, wearisome, fatiguing, taxing, gruelling, trying, formidable: The Sherpas were well equipped for the arduous climb. What an arduous task it is to read the proofs of a dictionary! 2 energetic, strenuous, vigorous: Montrose made arduous efforts to reconstruct his army.
ARRANGE|6|v. 1 order, dispose, array, organize, sort (out), systematize, group, set up, rank, line up, align, form, position: The teachers arranged the children according to height. The flowers were arranged in a vase so as to conceal the listening device. 2 settle, plan, set (up), organize, orchestrate, manipulate, choreograph; predetermine, decide, prepare, determine, prearrange, devise, bring about, contrive; fix it: Everything has been arranged - you won't have to lift a finger. For a small fee I can arrange for you to win the first prize. 3 orchestrate, score, adapt: Flemburgh has arranged music for some of the best-known modern composers.
ARRIVAL|8|n. 1 coming, advent, appearance: We have been awaiting your arrival for weeks. 2 newcomer; immigrant; traveller, passenger; tourist; Australian migrant, new chum: The arrivals on flight 422 were questioned about a bearded passenger on the plane.
ASHAMED|8|adj. embarrassed, abashed, humiliated, chagrined, mortified, blushing, shamefaced, sheepish, red-faced: I was ashamed to have to admit that it was I who had written the nasty letter.
ASSAULT|5|n. 1 attack, onslaught, onset, charge, offensive, blitzkrieg, blitz, strike, raid, incursion, sortie; aggression, invasion: At dawn we launched the assault on the fort. 2 beating, battering, hold-up, mugging; rape, violation, molestation; Law battery: The defendant is accused of assault. --v. 3 attack, assail, set or fall upon, pounce upon, storm, beset, charge, rush, lay into: The elderly couple were assaulted near their home. 4 rape, violate, molest: Three women were assaulted in that neighbourhood last night. 5 beat (up), batter, bruise, harm, hit, strike, punch, smite: She complained that her husband continually assaulted the children.
ASSUMED|8|adj. 1 appropriated, taken, usurped, expropriated, pre-empted, usurped, seized: He functions in his assumed capacity as a judge. 2 pretended, put on, sham, false, feigned, affected, counterfeit, simulated, spurious, bogus, fake; pseudonymous, made-up, Colloq phoney or US also phony: She morosely stared at the floor in assumed contrition. He wrote poetry under an assumed name. 3 taken, taken for granted, presumed, supposed, accepted, expected, presupposed; hypothetical, theoretical, suppositional: The payment depends materially on the assumed rate of interest.
ASTOUND|8|v. surprise, shock, astonish, stun, stagger, dumbfound or dumfound, bowl over, floor, stupefy, bewilder, overwhelm, Colloq flabbergast: We were astounded to learn that he had survived all those years on a desert island. The Great MacTavish performs astounding feats of magic and levitation!
ATTEMPT|9|v. 1 try, essay, undertake, take on, venture; endeavour, strive, Colloq have or take a crack at, try on, have a go or shot at: It is too stormy to attempt the crossing tonight. Is she going to attempt to dive off the cliff tomorrow? --n. 2 endeavour, try, essay; effort, undertaking, bid, Colloq crack, go, shot: The weather cleared sufficiently for another attempt at the summit. He made a feeble attempt to wave. 3 attack, assault: An abortive attempt was made on the life of the vice-president tonight.
ATTRACT|7|v. draw, invite; entice, lure, allure, appeal to, charm, captivate, fascinate, Colloq pull: Our attention was attracted by a slight noise in the cupboard. Melissa attracts men the way flowers attract bees.
AVARICE|12|n. greed, acquisitiveness, cupidity, craving, covetousness, desire, greediness, rapacity, selfishness; stinginess, meanness, miserliness, parsimony, tight-fistedness, close-fistedness, niggardliness, penuriousness: The classic tale of avarice is that of King Midas, whose touch turned everything to gold.
AVERAGE|11|n. 1 mean, norm, usual, standard: The Bell Inn is certainly far above average in accommodation, food quality, and service. 2 on average. in the main, generally, normally, usually, ordinarily, typically, customarily, as a rule, for the most part: On average, I go abroad twice a year on business. --adj. 3 normal, common, usual, customary, general, typical, ordinary, regular: On an average day, the museum has about 2,000 visitors. 4 mediocre, middling, run-of-the-mill, commonplace, common, ordinary, undistinguished, unexceptional, Colloq so so: Boris is only an average violinist, but he's a virtuoso on the harmonica.
AWESOME|12|adj. awe-inspiring, awful, imposing, amazing, wonderful, breathtaking, marvellous, wondrous, moving, stirring, affecting, overwhelming, formidable, daunting, dreadful, fearsome, fearful, frightening, horrifying, terrifying, terrible; unbelievable, incredible; alarming, shocking, stunning, stupefying, astounding, astonishing,: The eruption of Vesuvius in AD 67 must have been a truly awesome spectacle.
AWFULLY|14|adv. very (much), badly, terribly, extremely, greatly, remarkably, in the worst way, dreadfully, extraordinarily, exceedingly, excessively, really, fearfully, inordinately; incomparably: I get awfully tired running in the marathon. I'm awfully sorry I'm late. Doreen is an awfully good horsewoman.
AWKWARD|18|adj. 1 clumsy, ungainly, left-handed, ham-handed, ham-fisted, blundering, bungling, maladroit, uncoordinated, undexterous, inexpert, gauche, unhandy, inept, oafish, unskilled, unskilful, Colloq all thumbs, butter-fingered, Brit cack-handed: In his awkward attempt at putting the watch back together, Sam left out a few parts. 2 ungraceful, ungainly, inelegant, wooden, gawky: The ballerina made an awkward, flat-footed pirouette and stumbled off stage. 3 embarrassed, shamefaced, uncomfortable, ill at ease, uneasy, out of place, discomfited, confused: He felt awkward being the only boy in the class. Terry made an awkward excuse and left the room. 4 dangerous, hazardous, risky, precarious, perilous: Be careful, there's an awkward step here. 5 difficult, touchy, sensitive, embarrassing, delicate, unpleasant, uncomfortable, ticklish, tricky, trying, troublesome, Colloq sticky: He's got himself into a very awkward situation indeed.
BACKING|4|n. 1 support, help, aid, assistance, succour; approval, endorsement, patronage, approval, sponsorship: He knows that he can rely on the backing of his local party. 2 investment, money, funds, funding, subsidy, grant; sponsorship: How can you launch the company without backing?
BALANCE|11|v. 1 weigh, estimate, ponder, consider, deliberate, assess, compare, evaluate: We need to balance the advantages and the disadvantages. 2 steady, poise; equalize, stabilize, level, match, even out or up: The see-saw will balance better if both of you get on the other end. 3 compensate (for), make up for, counterbalance, offset, match, equal; counterpoise: The column of mercury in the barometer balances the atmospheric pressure on the surface of the bowl. The total of expenses seems to balance the total of income. --n. 4 scale(s), steelyard: According to the balance, the package weighs two pounds. 5 control, command, authority, weight, preponderance: Britain held the balance of power during those decades. 6 equilibrium, stability, steadiness, footing; equiponderance; equality, harmony: The acrobat almost lost his balance on the high wire. It is important to maintain a balance between presentation and content. 7 remainder, residue, rest; excess, surplus, difference: You take these and I'll follow with the balance. My bank balance is down to zero.
BANQUET|7|n. 1 feast, sumptuous repast or meal, ceremonial dinner, lavish dinner: At the end of the banquet, the guest of honour rose to make a few remarks. --v. 2 feast, indulge, wine and dine, regale, carouse: The winners of the trophy banqueted night after night on champagne and caviare.
BARGAIN|10|n. 1 agreement, contract, understanding, arrangement, covenant, pact, compact, settlement, transaction, deal: We made a bargain - I would provide the materials and he would do the work. 2 good deal, Colloq give-away, US steal: If you paid only ø100 for this painting, you got a real bargain. --v. 3 negotiate, trade, haggle, barter, dicker, chaffer: We bargained far into the night, and finally came to an agreement after eight hours of discussion. 4 bargain for. expect, count on, anticipate, foresee, take into account, allow for, be prepared for: Even though the storm had been predicted, it was windier than we had bargained for.
BARRIER|7|n. 1 bar, fence, railing, wall; ditch, ha-ha: A barrier was erected at each end of the street. This barrier will keep the dingoes from killing the sheep. 2 obstacle, bar, obstruction, block, impediment, hindrance: Neither race, nor creed, nor colour shall be a barrier to success. 3 boundary, boundary-line, limit, frontier: No mountain barrier lay between France and Flanders.
BARRING|4|prep. excluding, exclusive of, bar, omitting, leaving out, excepting, except (for), save for, aside from, besides, but: Barring another stock market crash, your money is safe. Nobody else, barring the author, knew the truth of the matter.
BASHFUL|10|adj. 1 shy, retiring, embarrassed, meek, abashed, shamefaced, sheepish, timid, diffident, self-effacing, unconfident; ill at ease, uneasy, uncomfortable, nervous, self-conscious, awkward, confused, Colloq in a tizzy, US and Canadian discombobulated: Henry is so bashful in the presence of women that he blushes merely talking to them. 2 modest, coy, unassuming, unostentatious, demure, reserved, restrained, Rare verecund: When we first met, she was a bashful young girl of fifteen who had no notion of her own beauty.
BEGUILE|10|v. 1 delude, deceive, cheat, swindle, dupe, fool, mislead, hoodwink, bamboozle, take in: She was easily beguiled by his solicitude. 2 defraud (of), deprive (of), cheat (out of or into), swindle (out of): Let no man beguile you of your reward. 3 charm, divert, amuse, distract, fascinate, engross, engage, allure: I always meet the most beguiling people at Daphne's parties.
BELIEVE|12|v. 1 accept, put faith or credence in or into, find credible, find creditable; allow, think, hold, maintain, feel; take it, suppose, assume: He still believes that the moon is made of green cheese. 2 believe in. trust to or in, rely upon or on, have faith or confidence in, put one's trust in, be convinced of, swear by, credit; have the courage of one's convictions: Do you believe everything you read in the papers? The chairman believes in your ability to carry out the plan. 3 make believe. pretend, suppose, imagine, fancy, conjecture, assume: I used to make believe I was a great detective.
BELOVED|13|adj. 1 loved, cherished, adored, dear, dearest, darling, precious, treasured; admired, worshipped, revered, esteemed, idolized, respected, esteemed; valued, prized: He denied nothing to his beloved children. She was their beloved queen. --n. 2 sweetheart, darling, dearest, love; lover, paramour, inamorata or inamorato, Colloq flame: He wrote poems to his beloved.
BENEATH|7|adv. 1 low or lower down, below, under, underneath: Please sign beneath if you agree the terms. 2 below, underneath, under; underground: The flowers are above the ground, the roots beneath. --prep. 3 under, underneath, below: Beneath that gruff exterior of his beats a heart of gold. 4 below, unworthy of, unbefitting, undeserving of, not (even) meriting, lower than: Your behaviour is beneath criticism.
BENEFIT|12|n. 1 advantage, profit, good, sake, gain, aid, help, service: It would be to their benefit to call off the strike. 2 Often, benefits. perquisite(s), emolument(s), allowance(s), extra(s), fringe benefit(s), Colloq perk(s): We offer one of the best schemes in the industry for employee benefits. --v. 3 improve, aid, help, better, promote, further, advance, forward: Enrolling on a management course could benefit your chances for advancement. 4 profit, gain: No one has ever personally benefited a penny from these contributions.
BEQUEST|7|n. legacy, inheritance: A huge bequest was received by the hospital.
BEREAVE|12|v. deprive; strip, rob, dispossess: The accident bereaved him of his child.
BERSERK|13|adj. amok, mad, violent, wild, crazed, frenzied, maniacal: He went berserk, destroying tables and chairs.
BESEECH|5|v. supplicate, entreat, implore, plead (with), beg, importune, obsecrate: The prisoners beseeched the king to have mercy on them.
BESIDES|10|adv. 1 in addition, additionally, also; further, furthermore, moreover, as well, too; to boot, on top of everything else, into the bargain: Maria is our choice for the post and, besides, she's the only qualified person available. On their anniversary he gave her a diamond ring and a sapphire brooch besides. --prep. 2 over and above, above and beyond, in addition to, additionally to, as well as; aside from, barring, excepting, except for, excluding, exclusive of, not counting or including, beyond, apart from, other than: St Paul became acquainted with many Christians besides his converts.
BESIEGE|10|v. 1 lay siege to, beleaguer: For ten years Troy was besieged by the Greeks. 2 blockade, block, block off or up, hem in, cut off; surround, crowd round: The strikers have besieged the factory gates, not allowing anyone in or out. 3 importune, sue, petition, assail, pressurize or US pressure, press, overwhelm, inundate: The Home Office has been besieged by requests for leniency in your case.
BEWITCH|10|v. enchant, entrance, spellbind, charm, fascinate, beguile, cast a spell over, captivate, enrapture: She easily bewitches men with her sultry good looks and her husky, low voice.
BIDDING|4|n. 1 invitation, summons: We attended the ceremony at the bidding of the vice-chancellor. 2 command, order, dictate, direction, instruction, demand: The letter was sent to all theatre directors at the bidding of the Arts Minister.
BIGOTED|11|adj. prejudiced, intolerant, biased, jaundiced, one-sided, partial: The judge was bigoted against Blacks, which accounts for the unfair decision.
BIGOTRY|13|n. prejudice, intolerance, bias, partiality: No government that practises bigotry can survive long.
BILIOUS|6|adj. ill-tempered, bad-tempered, ill-natured, peevish, testy, cross, petulant, tetchy, choleric, dyspeptic, angry, wrathful: The director was absolutely bilious when he heard we had lost the account.
BIZARRE|16|adj. 1 eccentric, unusual, unconventional, extravagant, whimsical, strange, odd, curious, peculiar, queer, offbeat, fantastic, weird, incongruous, deviant, erratic, Slang kinky: The police thought his behaviour somewhat bizarre and invited him down to the station for questioning. 2 grotesque, irregular, nonconformist, nonconforming, outlandish, outr÷, quaint, fantastic, unconventional: His house is a bizarre mixture of baroque and modern design.
BLACKEN|7|v. 1 darken, smudge, begrime: The chimney sweep's face was blackened with soot. 2 slander, libel, asperse, cast aspersions on, traduce, smear, sully, soil, besmirch, taint, tarnish, defame, revile, malign, vilify, discredit, denigrate: His article has blackened my reputation.
BLATANT|9|adj. 1 obvious, flagrant, palpable, obtrusive, arrant, shameless, unashamed, brazen, overt, glaring: Those hooligans have shown a blatant disregard for the law. 2 noisy, clamorous, loud, bellowing, strident, vociferous, rowdy, boisterous, obstreperous, uproarious: The blatant radical faction insists on making itself heard.
BLEMISH|4|v. 1 deface, mar, scar, impair, disfigure: They did nothing to blemish the beauty of the landscape. 2 tarnish, stain, sully, spoil, mar, flaw, harm, damage, scar, injure, bruise, besmirch: She has blemished my reputation by spreading those stories about me. --n. 3 disfigurement, scar, mark, impairment, stain, smear, blot; defect, flaw, error, fault, imperfection, error, erratum: Her complexion was entirely without blemish.
BLINDLY|13|adv. recklessly, heedlessly, deludedly, indiscriminately, rashly, impetuously, irrationally, thoughtlessly, mindlessly, senselessly, unthinkingly: Despite his parents' warnings, he went blindly on, till one day he was arrested.
BOMBARD|14|v. 1 batter, bomb, shell: The artillery continued to bombard the enemy with everything in their arsenal. 2 assail, attack, assault, set upon; besiege: The Prime Minister was bombarded with requests to amend the law.
BOMBAST|13|n. pretentious language, flatulence, bluster, show, grandiloquence, magniloquence, hot air, bravado, boast, boasting, Literary gasconade, rodomontade; Colloq puffery: The speaker continued to bore the audience with his pompous bombast.
BONDAGE|11|n. slavery, servitude, subjection, subjugation, enslavement, serfdom, thraldom; vassalage, villeinage: The poor souls were kept in bondage for most of their lives, forced to row in the galleys till they died.
BOORISH|5|adj. rustic, barbarian, rude, crude, ill-mannered, uncultured, coarse, clownish, uncouth, loutish, oafish, gawky, vulgar, ill-bred: How can you even think of inviting such a boorish fellow?
BOUQUET|7|n. 1 nosegay, posy, bunch, arrangement, spray: I sent her a bouquet of spring flowers for her birthday. 2 aroma, scent, odour, fragrance, perfume: This '83 burgundy certainly has a fine bouquet. 3 compliment(s), praise, commendation: Mrs Campbell received many bouquets for her performances.
BOYCOTT|12|v. 1 blacklist, embargo; avoid, refuse, shun, reject, eschew, pass over or by: They are boycotting Fern's Dairy because it won't hire women. The US government is still boycotting cigars from Havana. --n. 2 embargo, blacklist, blacklisting, ban: A boycott of their products soon forced them to change their policies.
BRACING|8|adj. invigorating, tonic, stimulating, refreshing, exhilarating, fortifying, restorative: I cannot live in the tropics and need the more bracing climate of the north.
BRAVADO|13|n. boldness, bluster, boasting, braggadocio, swagger, front, self-assurance, Literary rodomontade, gasconade; arrogance, pretentiousness, Colloq machismo, Slang Brit side: With an attempt at bravado, the union leader refused to meet the management representatives.
BRAVERY|15|n. daring, courage, valour, heroism, fortitude, fearlessness, intrepidity, intrepidness, pluck, determination, staunchness, firmness, resoluteness, resolution, indomitability, stalwartness, Colloq machismo: One has to admire the bravery of a woman who supported suffrage in the early 1900s.
BREVITY|15|n. shortness, briefness, conciseness, concision, terseness, succinctness, pithiness, compactness, laconicism or laconism, economy: Brevity is the soul of wit.
BRIEFLY|15|adv. 1 concisely, tersely, succinctly, in a word, in short; bluntly, curtly, in a nutshell, in a few words, to sum up: Briefly, the plan is a complete non-starter. 2 momentarily, for a few moments or seconds or minutes, fleetingly, hurriedly, hastily, quickly: I stopped briefly at the post office on my way home.
BRITTLE|7|adj. 1 fragile, frangible, breakable; friable: My fingernails become brittle in the cold and break easily. 2 frail, weak, delicate, sensitive, fragile, insecure: She might seem strong, but she has a very brittle nature and is easily upset.
BROTHER|7|n. sibling; relation, relative, kin, kinsman; fellow, fellow-man, fellow-clansman, fellow-citizen, fellow-countryman, fellow-creature; associate, colleague, confrëre, companion, Colloq pal, chum, Brit and Australian mate, US buddy: Some day, perhaps all men will regard each other as brothers.
BRUISER|9|n. prizefighter, boxer, fighter; tough, ruffian, bodyguard, thug, hoodlum, bouncer, Colloq hooligan, tough guy, toughie, Brit minder, US roughneck, hood, gorilla, plug-ugly, torpedo, enforcer: The heavyweight contender is really a big bruiser. Mr Big strode in with two of his bruisers.
BRUSQUE|7|adj. blunt, rude, overbearing, impolite, uncivil, discourteous, ungracious, ill-mannered, unmannerly; churlish, gruff, abrupt, short, curt, sharp, terse, brash, bluff: I could tell that the interviewer had already decided against me by her brusque attitude.
BULWARK|16|n. 1 defence or US defense, safeguard, redoubt, bastion, buffer, barrier, rampart, fortification: A strong defence is the best bulwark against aggression from outside. --v. 2 defend, protect, shelter: Marnie's indifference to others bulwarks her against any feelings of contrition.
BUOYANT|12|adj. 1 afloat, floating, floatable: The wood was water-logged and no longer buoyant. 2 light, resilient, lively, vivacious, bright, cheerful, carefree, blithe, animated, jaunty, bouncy, ebullient, light-hearted , Colloq peppy: One had to admire his buoyant optimism, even under adverse conditions.
BURGLAR|10|n. housebreaker, thief, robber; sneak-thief, cat burglar, US second-story or second-storey man: The burglars, remarkably, didn't take the most valuable paintings.
BURNING|6|adj. 1 flaming, blazing, fiery; ablaze, aflame, afire, on fire: When we arrived, the entire building was burning. 2 vehement, ardent, excited, passionate, fervent, fervid, intense, fiery, enthusiastic: She had a burning desire to join that illustrious company. 3 raging, violent, parching: His burning fever had finally subsided a little. 4 hot, blazing, scorching, seething, withering: She was married on a burning hot day in July.
BUTCHER|7|n. 1 murderer, slaughterer, killer, ripper, cutthroat, executioner, annihilator: That cold-blooded butcher dismembered his victims after strangling them. 2 destroyer, bungler, muddler: Look what that butcher of a tailor has done to my suit! --v. 3 slaughter, massacre, murder, cut or hack or hew to pieces, dismember, disembowel, exterminate, annihilate, kill, liquidate: The entire crew was butchered by the islanders. 4 botch, bungle, foul up, Colloq mess up, make a mess or hash of; Slang louse up, screw up, Brit bollocks or ballocks up, US bollix up; Taboo fuck up: He butchered the restoration of my antique cabinet.
CABINET|11|n. 1 cupboard, bureau, chifferobe, commode, chiffonier, chest (of drawers), chest-on-chest, tallboy, US highboy, lowboy: The aspirin is in the medicine cabinet. Our china cabinet is, unfortunately, not a genuine Chippendale. 2 council, ministry, committee, advisors, senate: At the age of thirty, he became the youngest member of the cabinet.
CADENCE|12|n. measure, beat, rhythm, tempo, accent, pulse, metre, lilt, swing: The snare drum marked the cadence for the marching band.
CALLING|4|n. vocation, occupation, profession, business, trade, employment, work, line, job, m÷tier, pursuit, career, area, province, (area of) expertise, Brit speciality or US specialty, Colloq racket: He found his calling as a veterinary surgeon very satisfying.
CALLOUS|4|adj. hardened, thick-skinned, unfeeling, uncaring, insensible, insensitive, hard, hard-hearted, tough, hardbitten, cold, cold-hearted, heartless, indifferent, unsympathetic, apathetic, Colloq hard-boiled, hard-nosed: It was callous of Gerry to go off to the snooker club right after the funeral.
CANDOUR|10|n. 1 openness, frankness, ingenuousness, simplicity, naìvety, outspokenness, unreservedness, forthrightness, honesty, sincerity, directness, straightforwardness, unequivocalness: I admire her candour, but the truth sometimes hurts. 2 impartiality, fairness, justice, objectivity, open-mindedness: In criticism candour is as rare as bigotry is frequent.
CANVASS|10|v. 1 solicit, electioneer, campaign, poll, US and Canadian stump: The candidates will be canvassing in farming areas next week. 2 survey, poll, study, analyse, examine, investigate, interview, question: The statisticians are not satisfied that enough women were canvassed to provide an accurate sample. --n. 3 solicitation, campaign: The party's canvass of rural areas for new supporters was not very successful. 4 survey, study, investigation, poll, examination, tally: A canvass of editors shows they have a conservative view of the language.
CAPITAL|11|n. 1 head, top, crown, cap: The column was surmounted by a finely carved capital. 2 seat (of government): Winnipeg is the capital of Manitoba. 3 money, assets, funds, finance(s), cash, wherewithal; wealth, means, property, resources, savings, principal: My capital is invested in land at the moment. 4 majuscule, upper case, large letter, initial, Colloq cap: The chapter titles should be set in capitals. --adj. 5 chief, main, major, important, cardinal, central, principal, prime, primary, paramount, pre-eminent, foremost, leading: Our capital responsibility is to ensure the passengers' safety. 6 first-class, first-rate, excellent, superior, matchless, peerless, choice, select, outstanding, fine, superb, splendid, marvellous, extraordinary, Colloq smashing, great, super, Brit brill, Old-fashioned topping, top-hole, ripping, ripsnorting: Eating out tonight was a capital idea.
CAPSIZE|20|v. upset, overturn, turn turtle or upside down, tip (over), keel over, invert: When the wind capsized the boat, we lost all our gear overboard.
CAPTIVE|14|n. 1 prisoner, convict, hostage, detainee, internee; slave, bondman or bondsman, bondservant: The captives were kept in a wretched hole. --adj. 2 imprisoned, incarcerated, confined, caged, locked up, under lock and key: Captive animals lose their free spirit.
CARRIER|7|n. 1 bearer, porter; transporter, drayman, shipper, haulier or US hauler; carter: The company we use as a carrier is expensive. 2 transmitter, Immunology vector, US Typhoid Mary: She couldn't have caught the disease directly, only through some carrier.
CAUSTIC|11|adj. 1 burning, corrosive, destructive, mordant, astringent: Sulphuric acid is the caustic agent that eats away the metal. 2 sarcastic, biting, acrimonious, sharp, bitter, biting, sardonic, cutting, trenchant, critical, scathing, acid, harsh, pungent, virulent: His caustic remarks do not earn him many friends.
CAUTION|9|n. 1 warning, admonition, admonishment, caveat, monition, advice, counsel, injunction: A word of caution is needed before you go ahead. 2 wariness, prudence, care, vigilance, forethought, heed, watchfulness, alertness, circumspection, discretion: Drivers should exercise extra caution in bad weather. --v. 3 warn, admonish, forewarn, tip (off); advise, counsel: Some employees had to be cautioned about arriving on time.
CERTIFY|15|v. 1 confirm, attest (to), verify, testify (to), affirm, aver, asseverate, corroborate, substantiate, endorse, guarantee, warrant; swear (to), bear witness (to), vouchsafe, vouch (for): I will certify the accuracy of the report. She certified that she was the owner of the car. 2 declare, classify, establish, confirm: The magistrate certified the man insane.
CHANNEL|3|n. 1 watercourse, canal, waterway, ditch, aqueduct, sluice, trench, trough, gutter, moat; river-bed, stream-bed: The engineers dug a channel to drain the swamp. 2 strait, narrows, neck: The English Channel connects the North Sea with the Atlantic Ocean. 3 furrow, groove, flute: The channels cut into this column are not straight. 4 course, means, way, approach, avenue, medium, path, artery, conduit: We have to open a new channel of communication with the terrorists. --v. 5 direct, convey, pass, guide, lead, conduct: Their grievances are being channelled through the information officer.
CHAOTIC|7|adj. 1 formless, shapeless, incoherent, disordered, disorderly, disorganized, unorganized, unsystematic, unsystematized, unmethodical, haphazard, irregular, helter-skelter, confused, topsy-turvy, jumbled, higgledy-piggledy, Brit shambolic: The present solar system is thought to have condensed from a chaotic mass of nebulous matter. The rules may seem chaotic at first sight. 2 tumultuous, noisy, clamorous, uproarious, wild, riotous, frenzied, hectic, turbulent, unstuck: The press conference became chaotic when the president announced his resignation.
CHARITY|8|n. 1 generosity, alms-giving, munificence, liberality, open-handedness, magnanimity, beneficence, philanthropy, unselfishness, humanity, humanitarianism, good will: Your charity towards this hospital has been unequalled by any other donor, Sir Keith. 2 leniency, big-heartedness, large-heartedness, benevolence, magnanimity, indulgence, considerateness, consideration, compassion, understanding, sympathy, kind-heartedness: We are all urged to show charity towards those who wrong us. 3 alms, donation, contribution, largesse, Colloq Brit dole, US welfare, relief: I want the opportunity to work, not the government's charity.
CHERISH|3|v. 1 treasure, hold or keep dear, prize: I know that she cherishes every moment you were together. 2 foster, tend, cultivate, preserve, sustain, nurture, nourish, nurse, cosset: For their sweetness gillyflowers are cherished in gardens. We cherish little Edward and probably spoil him a bit too much.
CHIEFLY|11|adv. mainly, in particular, especially, particularly, above all, most of all, pre-eminently, principally, primarily, mostly, predominantly, largely, by and large, on the whole, in the main, generally, in general, usually, as a rule: Inflation affected chiefly the price of food. The Anatomy of Melancholy consists chiefly of quotations.
CHRONIC|7|adj. 1 long-lasting, long-standing, lingering, inveterate, persistent, continuing, lasting, long-lived: The doctor said that the condition, for which there is no cure, is chronic. 2 inveterate, persistent, dyed in the wool, confirmed, habitual, hardened: Abby is a chronic liar.
CHUCKLE|3|v. 1 laugh, chortle, crow, snigger, giggle, titter: Robin always chuckled when the subject of embezzlement came up. --n. 2 chuckling, laugh, chortle, crowing, giggle; laughter, snigger, sniggering: It was hard to resist a chuckle when we saw the looks on their faces.
CIRCUIT|7|n. 1 compass, circumference, perimeter, periphery, girth, border, boundary, edge, limit, ambit, margin, outline, confine(s), bound, pale: The circuit of the area amounts to 72 miles. 2 round, tour, ambit, circle, orbit, course, lap: The rider completed the circuit of the ranch, mending the fence as he went.
CITIZEN|14|n. 1 voter; native; householder, resident, inhabitant, denizen, dweller, freeman; Brit patrial, ratepayer; US taxpayer: All citizens are entitled to certain rights. 2 city-dweller, town-dweller, townsman, townswoman, villager, burgess, oppidan: She considers herself a citizen of Oxford.
CLARIFY|15|v. 1 elucidate, make clear, simplify, make plain, clear up, explain, shed or throw light on or upon, illuminate, explicate: She offered to clarify any points about which we had questions. 2 clear, purify, clean: The trout should be lightly basted with clarified butter.
CLARITY|12|n. 1 clearness, transparency, limpidity, pellucidity: The clarity of the sea in the tropics is owing to a lack of plankton. 2 lucidity, definition, definiteness, distinctness; comprehensibility, understandability, intelligibility, unambiguousness: One cannot argue with the clarity of her explanation of Hegelianism.
CLASSIC|9|adj. 1 standard, leading, outstanding, prototypical, definitive, model, ideal, archetypal, paradigmatic: His military career is a classic example of what family connections can achieve. 2 legendary, immortal, enduring, deathless, ageless, timeless, undying, venerable, time-honoured; outstanding, first-rate, superior, excellent, noteworthy, notable, exemplary: By the time she was ten, she had read most of the classic works of English literature. He collects classic cars. --n. 3 paragon, epitome, outstanding example, exemplar, model, paradigm, prototype: When it comes to comedians, Ronnie is a classic. 4 masterpiece, master-work: The Rolls-Royce Silver Ghost is regarded as a classic by collectors.
CLUTTER|7|n. 1 mess, litter, jumble; mishmash, olla podrida, confusion, hash, gallimaufry, hotchpotch or US also hodgepodge, muddle, farrago, medley: I must insist that you clear up the clutter in your room at once. That philosophy is a clutter of competing ideas. 2 confusion, tangle, chaos, disarray: The town was a clutter of narrow, crooked, dark, and dirty lanes. --v. 3 Often, clutter up. mess up, litter, strew, make a shambles of: Please don't clutter up my desk with newspaper cuttings.
COLLECT|9|v. 1 gather (together), get or bring or come or together, amass, accumulate, assemble, compile, pile up, heap up, rack up; convene, congregate, converge, rally, meet: A crowd had collected outside the mayor's home. They were collecting evidence for their case. 2 summon (up), draw (up), muster, gather (up), concentrate: She collected all her courage to ask for an increase in salary.
COLLIDE|8|v. 1 crash, strike or dash together: The cars collided at the bridge. 2 collide with. crash into, smash into, run into, bump into, smack into: The car collided with the bus at the crossing.
COMBINE|13|v. 1 unite, unify, join, connect, relate, link, conjoin, band, ally, associate, integrate, merge, pool: Combine forces, and we'll win. 2 blend, mix, amalgamate, mingle, consolidate, compound, incorporate, put together: Combine the water, butter, and salt in a saucepan. 3 blend, fuse, synthesize, bind, bond, compound, unite, coalesce, come together, commingle, mingle: When heated, the silver combines with the chlorine.
COMFORT|14|v. 1 console, solace, soothe, assuage, reassure, relieve, hearten, cheer, gladden: It might comfort you to know that Roderick has recovered completely. He comforted her when the pain became unbearable. --n. 2 consolation, solace, relief, cheer: I derived some comfort from knowing that my attacker had been caught. 3 ease, luxury, security, abundance, plenty, opulence: Cordelia lived out her days in comfort after inheriting a fortune from her aunt.
COMMAND|8|v. 1 order, direct, bid, enjoin, charge, request, require, demand, instruct; say, prescribe, decree: What the Queen commands must be done. 2 control, dominate, have or maintain or wield authority or control or sway or influence over, hold sway over; lead, rule, govern, have under one's thumb, call the tune; head (up): Whoever commands the sea commands the town. He commanded a battalion during the war. 3 master, draw upon or on, control, summon: The work required all the skill the sculptor could command. 4 attract, earn; exact, compel, demand: Gunga Din's bravery commanded the respect of the entire regiment. 5 dominate, control, overlook, look down on; have, enjoy, possess: The tower commands a view of the entire valley. --n. 6 order, direction, behest, mandate, charge, bidding, instruction: Your wish is my command. 7 control, authority, power, sovereignty, dominion, regulation, direction, management, government, oversight, leadership, charge, sway, stewardship, jurisdiction: The unit is under the command of the colonel. 8 mastery, control, (thorough) grasp or knowledge: He has a good command of three languages.
COMMENT|7|n. 1 remark, reference, animadversion, note, annotation, criticism, exposition, explanation, expansion, elucidation, clarification, footnote: The author's comments on his sources appear in the appendix. 2 commentary, opinion, remark, view, observation, reaction: The judge's comments are not for publication. --v. 3 remark, observe, opine, say: He commented that he knew nothing about the minister's private life. 4 comment on or about. discuss, talk about, remark on; reveal, expose: She declined to comment on what had happened the previous night.
COMPACT|15|adj. 1 packed, compacted, closely-knit, condensed, concentrated, consolidated, compressed; dense, solid, firm, thick: The sesame seeds are mixed with honey and pressed into a compact block. 2 tight, small, snug, little: The table folds up into a compact unit for storage. 3 condensed, terse, laconic, close, pithy, succinct, concise, brief, compendious, laconic, epigrammatic, aphoristic: The information is given in a compact form with many abbreviations and symbols.
COMPANY|16|n. 1 companionship, society, fellowship; attendance, presence; associates, friends, companions, comrades: It was a stormy night, and I was only too glad to have his company. A man is known by the company he keeps. 2 assemblage, party, band, group, retinue, entourage, suite, train, coterie, ensemble, troop, followers, following, flock; circle, assembly, gathering, convention, body, crowd, throng, Theatre troupe, cast, players, actors, performers: The king arrived with his company at the gate of the city. The speaker addressed the assembled company. The company leaves today for a month on the road. 3 guest(s); visitor(s), caller(s): Are you having company for dinner tonight? 4 firm, business, house, concern, institution, establishment, enterprise; proprietorship, partnership, corporation, Brit public limited company, plc, Australian and New Zealand and South African private limited company, Pty: The company was founded in 1867.
COMPETE|13|v. contend, vie, struggle, strive, conflict, joust, fence; fight, battle, clash, collide: They are competing to see who will become chairman of the company. These two designs compete with one another for the viewer's attention.
COMPILE|13|v. collect, put together, gather, accumulate, assemble, amass, collate, organize, order, systematize; anthologize, compose: He has compiled a large butterfly collection. Every year she compiles a volume of the best stories.
COMPOSE|13|v. 1 constitute, form, make (up), be a constituent or ingredient or component or element of, be a part of: Clouds are composed of countless particles of water. 2 write, create, imagine, think up, originate, frame, formulate, make (up), author, devise; contrive; set to music, arrange: He composed the poem while travelling on the Flying Scotsman. That symphony was composed in 1873. 3 be composed of. consist of or in, comprise, be formed or made (up) of, be constituted of: The new government is composed of a coalition of three parties. 4 compose oneself. calm (down), quiet or quieten (down), pacify, control oneself, get control of or over oneself: They stopped crying and composed themselves.
COMPUTE|13|v. calculate, reckon, figure (out), work out, determine, ascertain, estimate: My accountant computed my income tax for this year and told me that I was entitled to a refund.
CONCEAL|11|v. 1 hide, secrete, bury, cover, disguise, camouflage: Packets of a white powdery substance were concealed inside each doll. 2 keep secret or hidden, keep quiet about, disguise, not reveal; dissemble: He concealed his true identity even from his wife.
CONCEDE|12|v. 1 admit, allow, grant, acknowledge, confess, own (up or to or up to), accept: I conceded that I had no business in the bank after closing. 2 grant, yield, surrender, cede, give up, submit, resign, relinquish, abandon, waive: In chess, upon the loss of a queen, many players will concede. She has conceded any right to the estate of her uncle.
CONCEIT|11|n. 1 vanity, pride, egotism, self-esteem, self-admiration, self-love, narcissism, vainglory, amour propre; arrogance: His conceit is matched only by his incompetence. 2 fancy, whim, caprice: Some have a conceit their drink tastes better / In an outlandish cup than their own. 3 elaborate figure (of speech), affectation, strained or far-fetched metaphor: A conceit would be calling the waves 'nodding hearse-plumes'.
CONCERN|11|v. 1 refer or relate to, have relation or reference to, be about, pertain or appertain to, be pertinent or relevant to, regard, apply to, be connected or involved with, bear on, be germane to, be connected with, involve, apply to, touch (on): The matter concerns your inheritance, Cosgrove. 2 affect, have (a) bearing or (an) influence on, involve, touch; interest, be of importance or interest to: This war concerns us all. 3 worry, trouble, disturb, bother, perturb, unsettle, upset, distress: He doesn't let anything concern him. --n. 4 business, affair, problem; responsibility, duty, charge, task, involvement, Colloq thing; Slang bag, shtick: What she does is no concern of yours. The safety of the passengers is his concern. 5 interest, regard, consideration, care, thought, awareness, attention: You should show more concern for those less fortunate than you. 6 anxiety, worry, solicitude, apprehension, distress, apprehensiveness, uneasiness, malaise, disquiet, disquietude: It's only a cold, and no cause for concern. 7 business, firm, company, house, establishment, enterprise, organization: The business is being sold as a going concern. 8 matter, affair, issue: The preservation of wildlife is an international concern.
CONCISE|7|adj. brief, terse, laconic, compact, direct, succinct, epigrammatic, cogent, pithy, compendious, summary, epigrammatic, trenchant, compressed, condensed, short; shortened, abridged, curtailed, abbreviated: He gave a concise summary of the findings. This is a concise edition of the dictionary.
CONDEMN|12|v. 1 censure, blame, criticize, remonstrate with or against, denounce, disparage, reproach, rebuke, reprove, scold, reprimand, upbraid: The council was condemned for failing to provide adequate health care. 2 convict, find guilty; sentence, doom: The judge condemned them to twenty years imprisonment. 3 Usually, condemned. doomed, damned, destined, fated, ordained, foreordained; consigned: He has been condemned to wander forever.
CONDUCT|12|n. 1 behaviour, actions, demeanour, manners, deportment, comportment, attitude: Such conduct will not be tolerated in this school. 2 guidance, direction, management, supervision, leadership, administration, government, running, handling, control, command, regulation, operation: Had the conduct of the war been left up to him, we should have lost. --v. 3 guide, direct, supervise, manage, carry on, run, control, administer, regulate, operate: They conduct a remarkably successful business. 4 lead, guide, escort, show (in or out), usher: We were conducted through the gallery by the curator herself. 5 channel, carry, transmit, convey; direct: Electrical power is conducted by the cable. 6 conduct oneself. behave, act, demean, deport, comport, acquit: For a six-year-old, he conducted himself very well.
CONFESS|10|v. disclose, acknowledge, admit, own (up or to or up to), declare, avow, make a clean breast (of); reveal, divulge, confirm, concede, affirm, aver, testify; disbosom oneself, Colloq come clean: She confessed her part in the swindle. Confronted with the evidence, he confessed.
CONFIRM|14|v. 1 ratify, sanction, authorize, endorse, support, sustain, approve, uphold, back up, validate, verify, recognize; authenticate, accredit: By-laws shall not take effect unless confirmed by the local authority. 2 establish, settle, affirm, ensure, clinch, substantiate, guarantee, bind, seal: The king thereby confirmed his control over the islands. 3 strengthen, encourage, fortify, reinforce, corroborate, substantiate, buttress, prove: Later events confirmed his opinion.
CONFORM|14|v. 1 comply (with), follow, observe, obey, respect, abide by, adapt or adjust (to): We agree to conform to the rules of the club. 2 accord (with), agree (with), concur (with), coincide (with), correspond (with), harmonize (with), square (with), match, tally (with), fit (in with), be consistent (with), be in accord or in accordance (with): Their behaviour did not conform with what is expected in such circles. The two plans do not conform.
CONFUSE|12|v. 1 disconcert, perplex, puzzle, bewilder, mystify, baffle, bemuse, befuddle, discomfit, confound, fluster, flummox, upset, disorient, embarrass, abash, shame, dismay, Colloq rattle, throw, Chiefly US discombobulate , US and Canadian buffalo: She was completely confused by his offer to help. 2 disorder, confound, disorganize, throw into disarray, muddle, mix up, snarl (up), ensnarl, tangle (up), entangle, botch, Colloq mess up, make a mess of, screw up, Brit make a balls-up of, US ball up: He has done more to confuse the situation than to clear it up. 3 mix up, confound, muddle, jumble, snarl (up), ensnarl; blur: The identities of the children were confused at birth.
CONNECT|9|v. 1 join or link or tie (together), unite: An old road connects the two towns. 2 associate, affiliate, link, relate, league, tie (in): The police connected him with the break-in. The institute is connected with a pharmaceuticals company. 3 fasten, bind, unite, tie, link, join, attach, couple, put together, secure, fit, fix, affix, stick, anchor, lock; rivet, weld, braze, solder, screw, nail, stitch, sew, pin, hook, staple, tack, glue, cement, fuse, seal, buckle, strap, bolt, lash, chain, moor: Connect the parts to the frame.
CONQUER|7|v. 1 overcome, vanquish, beat, defeat, subdue, crush, subjugate: The Moors conquered most of Spain. 2 capture, seize, win, gain, acquire, obtain; occupy, annex, overrun: They conquered the territory by force of arms. 3 overcome, triumph or prevail over, beat, surmount, master, win out (over): He has finally conquered the habit of biting his fingernails.
CONSENT|9|v. 1 agree, comply, concur, accede, acquiesce, concede, yield, submit, cede, conform, give in: He asked for payment in advance and I consented. 2 consent to. permit, allow, agree to, give in to, approve, authorize: Richard's parents consented to his going on the outing. --n. 3 approval, assent, permission, sanction, authorization, imprimatur, seal of approval, Colloq OK, okay, go-ahead: Have Richard's parents given their consent? 4 agreement, acceptance, acquiescence, compliance, approval, concurrence: Taxes cannot be raised without the consent of Parliament.
CONSOLE|9|v. comfort, soothe, calm, assuage, solace, cheer (up): Ivan made an effort to console the grieving widow.
CONSULT|9|v. 1 Often, consult with. confer (with), discuss (with), deliberate (with), talk over (with), inquire or enquire of, seek advice from, ask (of), question, interrogate, take counsel (with or of): I shall have to consult a doctor about my headaches. You should consult with your lawyer. 2 refer to, look up, seek information from: If in doubt, consult the dictionary.
CONSUME|11|v. 1 devour, eat (up), gulp (down), swallow, drink (up), put away, gobble (up); digest: When those teenagers come home, they consume everything in sight. 2 use up, exhaust, deplete, drain, expend, diminish, reduce: The new car has consumed all our savings. 3 waste, occupy, squander, fritter away, dissipate, absorb, lose, throw away, lavish, Slang blow: Too much of your time has already been consumed by that problem. 4 destroy, ruin, (lay) waste, demolish, wreck, gut, raze, Slang US and Canadian total: Fire consumed the entire house. 5 overcome, overwhelm, devastate, destroy, annihilate, ravage, (lay) waste, wear out, ruin, eat up, devour, do in; preoccupy, obsess: He is consumed by jealousy.
CONTACT|11|n. 1 junction, conjunction, connection: If the wires make contact, the fuse will blow. 2 acquaintance, friend, connection, Colloq US in: I have a contact on the board of directors. 3 touch, communication, association: Are you still in contact with Georgina? --v. 4 get in touch with, communicate with, reach, get hold of; phone, ring (up), telephone, speak to or with, write to, correspond with: Try to contact the manager at his home.
CONTAIN|9|v. 1 hold, have in it; bear, carry: The capsule contained a deadly poison. 2 hold, have the capacity for, accommodate, admit, carry; seat: This bottle contains no more than a quart. The theatre can contain 200. 3 restrain, restrict, confine, repress, control, hold back or in, curb, bridle, keep under control, suppress, check, stifle: He could hardly contain himself when he learnt he had passed the examination.
CONTENT|9|n. 1 capacity, volume, size, measure: The content of the barrel is exactly 55 gallons. 2 Usually, contents. ingredients, components, constituents; load: The bottle broke and its contents spilt on the floor. 3 substance, subject-matter; significance, purport, import, essence, text, theme, topic, thesis: The book is amusing but its content is quite trivial.
CONTEST|9|n. 1 competition, match, tournament, championship, tourney, meet, game, rivalry, trial: The contest was won by a woman from Shropshire. 2 strife, controversy, dispute, contention, debate, altercation, argument, velitation; conflict, struggle, fight, battle, combat, war: The contest is between those for and those against capital punishment. --v. 3 contend, argue, dispute, debate; challenge, (call into) question, oppose, counter, confute, object to, refute: David has decided to contest his father's will.
CONTEXT|16|n. structure, framework, environment, situation, circumstance(s); ambience or ambiance, surround, surroundings, frame (of reference), setting, background: It is often hard to understand something taken out of its context.
CONTROL|9|v. 1 command, dominate, direct, steer, pilot, hold sway over, rule, exercise power or authority over, govern, manage, lead, conduct, be in control (of), call the tune, guide, oversee, supervise: Does she really control the future of the company? 2 check, hold back or in check, curb, repress, contain: Try to control yourself. 3 suppress, put down, master, subdue, restrain, curb, manage: They were totally unable to control the unruly teenagers. --n. 4 command, direction, power, authority, leadership, management, guidance, supervision, oversight, charge; sway, rule, jurisdiction: Turn control of the mission over to Mrs Beale. The court is under the control of the State. 5 restraint, check, curb, mastery, command, dominance, domination: You must get better control over your emotions. 6 knob, button, dial, handle, lever, switch; device, mechanism: This control opens the door to the safe.
CONVICT|14|v. 1 find or prove guilty: She was convicted of theft. --n. 2 prisoner, captive, Slang con, jailbird orBrit also gaolbird, Brit lag: The rioting convicts burnt down two prison buildings.
CORRECT|9|v. 1 right, set or put right, amend, redress, rectify, remedy, repair, fix; cure: A good mechanic will be able to correct the faults in the engine. 2 scold, admonish, rebuke, reprimand, berate, chide, reprove; censure, blame: You mustn't correct people for their bad manners. 3 punish, chastise, chasten, discipline, castigate: The boys were corrected for swearing at the teacher. 4 reverse, offset, counteract, counterbalance, neutralize, nullify, make up for, annul, cancel; adjust, change, modify: Adding this fertilizer should correct the acid content of the soil. 5 mark, grade: The exam papers haven't yet been corrected. --adj. 6 proper, decorous, decent, appropriate, suitable, fit, right, meet, fitting, befitting, apt, de rigueur, comme il faut, Old-fashioned Brit tickety-boo: I have found her behaviour correct at all times. 7 conventional, established, set, standard, normal, orthodox, approved, in order, de rigueur, comme il faut, usual, natural, customary, traditional, done, right, Old-fashioned Brit tickety-boo: Sending flowers to the funeral parlour would be the correct thing to do. 8 accurate, right, precise, exact, factual, valid, true, proper, fitting, apt, suitable, appropriate; faultless, perfect, unimpeachable: Joanna gave the correct answer.
CORRUPT|9|adj. 1 dishonest, untrustworthy, dishonourable, underhand(ed), venal, Colloq crooked: He got off by bribing a corrupt judge. 2 debased, depraved, perverted, subverted, evil, wicked, degenerate, degraded: The inhabitants practised a corrupt form of Christianity. --v. 3 debase, pervert, subvert, degrade, deprave, warp: A funds manager could easily be corrupted by all that money. 4 adulterate, contaminate, pollute, taint, defile, infect, spoil, poison: Drainage from the site has corrupted the purity of the water. 5 bribe, suborn, buy (off): He thought he knew a juror who might be corrupted.
COSTUME|11|n. dress, clothing, attire, clothes, garb, apparel, raiment, garments, outfit, vestment, livery, uniform, kit, Colloq gear, togs, get-up; Slang rags, US threads: What kind of costume is Celia wearing to the fancy-dress ball?
COTTAGE|8|n. hut, shack, cabin, bungalow, shanty, Literary cot; US and Canadian lodge, chalet: She's going to stay at our cottage for a week.
COUNCIL|7|n. 1 assembly, meeting, conclave, conference, synod, consistory, convention, congress, congregation, gathering, convocation, US caucus: The council voted to ban nuclear arms. 2 board, ministry, directors, cabinet, panel, committee, body, directorate, directory, caucus: She was elected to the council last year.
COUNSEL|9|n. 1 advice, judgement, direction, opinion, guidance, instruction, recommendation, exhortation, Technical parónesis: Your counsel has always been wise in the past. 2 consultation, discussion, deliberation, consideration: We took counsel with the cabinet on the matter. 3 adviser or advisor, guide, counsellor; lawyer, Brit barrister; US attorney: My counsel suggests we settle out of court. --v. 4 advise, recommend to, suggest to, instruct; guide: I have counselled her to pursue the matter.
COUNTER|9|n. 1 token, disc, chip, piece, marker: She placed three counters on the number 14. 2 table, bar: We do not serve beer at this counter.
COUNTRY|12|n. 1 nation, state, power; territory, realm: How many countries belong to the British Commonwealth? 2 (native) land, homeland, fatherland, motherland, mother country: I would gladly fight for my country. 3 countryside, rural area or surroundings, provinces, hinterlands; mountains, woods, wilderness, outback, Colloq sticks, US boondocks, boonies: We are spending our holiday in the country.
CREVICE|14|n. crack, fissure, chink, cleft, cranny, groove, furrow, break, split, rift: Water ran down the crevices in the rocks.
CRIPPLE|7|n. 1 amputee, paralytic: He has been a cripple since the accident. --v. 2 disable, lame, incapacitate, handicap, maim; impair, damage, weaken, debilitate, emasculate, enervate: She was crippled when a child. The dictator's power was crippled by the revolt.
CROOKED|12|adj. 1 criminal, dishonest, illegal, unlawful, illicit, wrong, perverse, Slang Brit bent: Selling a stolen painting is crooked. 2 bent, bowed, askew, awry, deformed, distorted, contorted, lopsided, twisted, misshapen, disfigured, warped, gnarled: Because of the constant west wind, the trees are all crooked.
CRUCIAL|7|adj. critical, decisive, pivotal, vital, momentous, major, important, essential: It is crucial that you press the right button.
CRUMBLE|8|v. disintegrate, fragment, break apart, break up, shiver, come to pieces: Acid rain has caused the stone faúade to crumble. In the face of the attack, his resolve crumbled.
CRUMPLE|13|v. wrinkle, crush, crease, rumple, mangle, crinkle: Your jacket is all crumpled.
CRYPTIC|16|adj. 1 secret, occult, mystical, hidden, esoteric, mystic, cabbalistic: The sarcophagus was covered with cryptic symbols. 2 obscure, mysterious, unclear, nebulous, vague, inscrutable, recondite, arcane, enigmatic, puzzling: I cannot make head or tail of her cryptic remarks.
CULPRIT|11|n. 1 accused, prisoner: How does the culprit plead? 2 offender, criminal, malefactor, wrongdoer: They caught the culprit red-handed.
CULTURE|9|n. 1 cultivation, refinement, sophistication, urbanity, suavity, elegance, (good) breeding, background, erudition, education, enlightenment, learning, taste, discrimination, savoir faire, savoir vivre, discernment: She is a lady of considerable culture as well as beauty. 2 civilization, mores, customs, lifestyle, way of life, (sense of) values: In their culture, biting someone is a sign of love and respect.
CURIOUS|6|adj. 1 inquisitive, inquiring, interested: I am curious to know what you were doing in there all night. 2 snooping, prying, intrusive, meddlesome, interfering, Colloq nosy: Our neighbours are entirely too curious about our activities. 3 odd, peculiar, eccentric, strange, outr÷, queer, unusual, outrageous, offbeat, weird, bizarre, unconventional, freakish, exotic, singular, out of the ordinary, extraordinary, erratic, pixilated, quaint, outlandish, grotesque, aberrant, abnormal, singular, irregular, deviant, deviate, Colloq kinky, nuts, nutty; Slang Brit barmy: How do you explain Frieda's curious behaviour?
CURRENT|7|adj. 1 contemporary, ongoing, present, contemporaneous, simultaneous, coeval: The current issue of the magazine came out last week. 2 prevalent, prevailing, common, popular, accepted, known, widespread, reported, in circulation, going round or around, bruited about, widely known, in the air, present-day: The current theories reject those of a decade ago. 3 fashionable, stylish, å la mode, modish, in vogue, latest, up to date, Colloq trendy: The current trend is towards shorter skirts. 4 US up to date, in the know, informed, advised, in touch, aware, posted, au courant, au fait, on the qui vive: The Financial Journal keeps me current on stock prices. --n. 5 stream, flow, undercurrent: The canoe was caught in the current and carried away. 6 course, progress, tendency, tenor, drift, trend, inclination, mainstream: The current of public opinion is turning in favour of policies that are more environmentally responsible.
CURSORY|12|adj. superficial, hasty, hurried, passing, quick, slapdash, perfunctory, rapid, summary: She gave the note a cursory glance and threw it away.
CURTAIL|9|v. shorten, abbreviate, cut short, abridge, diminish, reduce, cut, cut back, cut down: Both our working week and our salaries were curtailed.
CUSHION|7|n. 1 pillow, bolster, pad: The women of the harem sat on cushions on the floor. --v. 2 soften, absorb, mitigate, reduce, buffer, insulate, mollify, lessen: They offered me a month's paid holiday to help cushion the blow of being transferred.
CUSTODY|13|n. 1 care, custodianship, safe keeping, protection, charge, guardianship, keeping: She was granted custody of the children. 2 imprisonment, detention, incarceration, confinement: The police took three troublemakers into custody.
CUTTING|4|adj. 1 severe, biting, chill, cold, icy, frigid, freezing, raw, piercing, penetrating: A cutting wind seemed to go right through me. 2 sarcastic, sardonic, bitter, scornful, sneering, acid, scathing, acerb(ic), wounding, stern, harsh, caustic, mordant, acrimonious, contemptuous; malevolent, malicious, invidious, vicious, venomous: Her cutting remarks completely devastated me. --n. 3 scion, slip, clipping: Mrs Galloway allowed me to take a cutting from her rose bush.
DABHAND|14|n.phr. past master, expert, master, adept, authority, wizard, Colloq ace: Oscar is a dab hand at wood-carving.
DECEIVE|13|v. mislead, delude, impose on or upon, fool, hoax, trick, cheat, swindle, betray, double-cross, lead on, lead up or down the garden path, lead astray, pull the wool over (someone's) eyes, inveigle, cajole, Archaic cozen; Colloq con, bamboozle, take in, take for a ride, two-time, move the goalposts; Slang US take: He deceived even his friends and family into believing he had been a war hero.
DECIDED|8|adj. 1 definite, pronounced, marked, unmistakable, unambiguous, unequivocal, certain, sure, absolute, obvious, clear, evident, unquestionable, unquestioned, indisputable, undisputed, undeniable, irrefutable, incontestable, unqualified, unconditional, incontrovertible, solid: The party was a decided success. 2 fixed, firm, resolute, determined, adamant, stony, unhesitating, decisive, definite, unfaltering, assertive, asseverative, unswerving, unwavering: They are decided in their approval of her plan.
DECLINE|10|v. 1 refuse, turn down, deny, reject, demur, forgo, veto, avoid, abstain from: She declined help with the packages. Roger was offered a professorship at the university but he declined. 2 diminish, lessen, decrease, wane, flag, go down, fall or taper off, subside, ebb, abate, dwindle, shrink, fade, Colloq peter out, run out of steam, US run out of gas: Demand for hula hoops declined. 3 slope or slant (downwards), descend, drop or fall off, dip, sink: The meadow declines towards the river. 4 deteriorate, degenerate, worsen, fail: My health has declined over the last year. 5 go or drop down, settle, dip, sink, set: The sun was declining as I went home. --n. 6 diminution, decrease, lessening, ebb, downturn, fall-off, reduction, abatement, slump, descent: There has been a steady decline in the value of the pound. 7 degeneration, deterioration, loss, diminution, weakening, debility, weakness, worsening, decay, failing: We noted a decline in the physical condition of those living nearby. 8 declivity, (downward) slope or slant, descent, downgrade, incline: The path led down a steep decline towards the pond.
DECORUM|12|n. 1 etiquette, proper behaviour, propriety, good form, mannerliness, politeness, dignity, gentility, good manners, respectability, courtliness, deportment: The decorum of the meeting was disturbed by rabble-rousers. 2 correctness, propriety, protocol, punctilio, conformity: Please observe proper decorum when visiting the embassy.
DEFENCE|13|n. 1 shelter, protection, cover, guard, safeguard, shield: There is no defence against certain illnesses. 2 fortification, armour, barricade, screen, bulwark, rampart: Shore defences were set up, including barbed wire entanglements and concrete pillboxes. 3 excuse, apology, reason, apologia, explanation; justification, vindication, argument, plea, advocacy, support: His defence for decreasing welfare payments was inadequate. She spoke in defence of nationalizing industry.
DEFICIT|9|n. loss, deficiency, shortfall, shortage, default: At the end of the year there was a considerable deficit.
DEFLECT|13|v. avert, turn away or aside, deviate, change, swerve, switch, divert, shy, veer, sidetrack; fend off: The trajectory of a bullet is deflected by gravity. By deflecting a bit to their left, they managed to regain their original course.
DEFRAUD|12|v. cheat, swindle, trick, beguile, cozen, dupe, delude, fool, bilk, fleece, victimize, take in, deceive, humbug, hoodwink, flimflam, Colloq do, diddle, con, slip one over on, put (something) over on, pull a fast one on, fast-talk, rope in,, US take; Slang take for a ride, gyp, rob, rip off, rook; Dialect flam: Shareholders are defrauded by insider trading schemes.
DEFUNCT|13|adj. 1 dead, deceased, extinct: The dinosaurs have been defunct for millions of years. 2 inoperative, inapplicable, unused, unusable, invalid, expired, obsolete, pass÷, dead, expired, non-existent, outmoded, out: Although still on the books, that law is defunct.
DELIGHT|5|v. 1 please, gratify, satisfy, gladden, cheer, tickle, amuse, entertain, divert, excite, thrill, captivate, entrance, fascinate: We were delighted to hear the Mighty Allen Art Players once again. 2 delight in. enjoy, appreciate, like, relish (in), savour, revel in, glory in; love, adore; Colloq get a kick from or out of; Slang get off on: She delights in any kind of jazz. --n. 3 pleasure, gratification, joy, satisfaction, enjoyment, delectation; bliss, ecstasy, rapture: She takes great delight in playing practical jokes on her guests. In his dreams he visited the garden of earthly delights.
DELIVER|11|v. 1 carry, bring, convey, distribute, give or hand out; purvey, take round; cart, transport: Only in a few places in the world do they still deliver milk to the door. 2 hand over, give, surrender, cede, yield, make over, relinquish, give up or over, commit, transfer, turn over, resign: We were forced to deliver our children to the enemy as hostages. 3 set free, liberate, enfranchise, extricate, release, save, rescue; emancipate, manumit, redeem; disencumber, disburden, ransom: They were delivered from certain death by the arrival of the helicopter. Modern appliances have delivered millions of women from the drudgery of housework. 4 give, present, utter, read, broadcast; proclaim, announce, declare, set forth, communicate, make known, express, publish, hand over, hand out, promulgate, pronounce, enunciate: He has to deliver a speech tonight. The police delivered an ultimatum to the terrorists. 5 give, administer, inflict, deal, direct, send, launch, impart, throw; cast, hurl, shoot, discharge, fire: He delivered a blow on the chin that knocked me out. The ball was delivered with enormous speed. 6 bring forth, bear, give birth to, bring into the world: In the next three years, she delivered three more girls. 7 produce, perform, put one's money where one's mouth is: Roger had better deliver, or we shall have to take drastic measures.
DENIZEN|17|n. inhabitant, dweller, occupant, frequenter, resident; citizen: The depths of the seas harbour some strange denizens. Carl is a denizen of The Bottle and Glass.
DEPOSIT|10|v. 1 place, leave, set or put or lay (down), drop, Colloq US plunk down: You are requested to deposit litter in the bin. 2 entrust, leave, lodge, consign, keep, place, put; store, save, set aside, bank, lay or put away, Brit pay in, Colloq stash away: Each morning she deposits the children at the day nursery and goes to work. He deposits money every week in a pension fund. --n. 3 down payment, part or partial payment, advance payment: A small deposit will hold your purchase until you are ready to pay for it in full. 4 precipitate, sediment, silt, alluvium, dregs, lees, accumulation, deposition: There is a dark deposit at the bottom of the coffee-pot.
DEPRESS|8|v. 1 deject, dispirit, oppress, sadden, grieve, cast down, dishearten, discourage, dampen, cast a gloom or pall over, burden, weigh down: He's very depressed right now because he failed to get a promotion. 2 weaken, dull, debilitate, enervate, sap; depreciate, cheapen, devalue, devaluate; diminish, lower, bring down, reduce: The news about a new oil field depressed the market today. 3 press (down), push (down) (on), lower: If the pressure gets too high, just depress this lever.
DEPRIVE|13|v. withhold, deny, refuse; withdraw, remove, strip, dispossess, take away, expropriate, divest; mulct: They deprived him of the right to have visitors.
DESCEND|7|v. 1 come or go down, move down, climb down, get down: The sun was setting as he descended from the mountain. 2 decline, incline (downwards), slope, slant, dip, drop, fall, plunge, plummet: Beyond the curve, the road descends suddenly for a mile. 3 stoop, condescend, sink, lower oneself: If you start shouting, you're just descending to Basil's level. 4 descend on. attack, assault, invade, pounce on or upon, swoop down on or upon: Fighter planes descended in droves and destroyed the base entirely.
DESERVE|11|v. merit, earn, be entitled to, be worthy of, rate, warrant, justify: You ought to be nicer to him - he really doesn't deserve such unkind treatment.
DESPAIR|10|n. 1 hopelessness, desperation, discouragement, disheartenment, despondency, dejection, depression, gloom, gloominess, misery, melancholy, wretchedness, distress, miserableness, anguish; resignation: The despair of the prisoners was evident in their ravaged faces. --v. 2 give up or lose hope; surrender, quit: We despaired of ever seeing our children again.
DESPISE|10|v. disdain, scorn, look down on or upon, be contemptuous of, sneer at, spurn, contemn; hate, loathe, detest, abhor: She despised her servants and treated them badly. He despised anyone who had not been to university.
DESPITE|10|prep. in spite of, notwithstanding, undeterred by, regardless of, in the face or teeth of, in defiance of, without considering, without thought or consideration or regard for, ignoring: We went sailing despite the fact that gales had been forecast.
DESSERT|6|n. sweet, Brit pudding, Colloq Brit pud, afters: For dessert, I had ice-cream and she had a fruit tart.
DESTINE|8|v. 1 fate, predetermine, predestine, ordain, foreordain, preordain; doom: His only ambition was to be a successful farmer, but the gods destined him for greater things. 2 design, intend, mean, devote, assign, appoint, designate, purpose, mark, earmark, set aside: He beheld the chariot destined to carry him heavenwards.
DESTROY|11|v. 1 demolish, tear or pull down, raze, wipe out, ravage, wreck, smash, ruin, break up or down, annihilate, crush, eradicate, extirpate, exterminate, devastate, commit mayhem, lay waste, vandalize, Slang US trash: The invading hordes destroyed everything, leaving desolation in their wake. The storm destroyed fifty houses. 2 ruin, do away with, end, make an end of, bring to an end, bring or put an end to, terminate, finish, kill: Realizing what he had done, he destroyed himself. The trial destroyed his career. 3 counteract, neutralize, nullify, annul, cancel (out), reverse; stop, interfere with: Caught embezzling, Martin destroyed everything he had worked for. Sunspot activity destroyed radio transmission this week. 4 disprove, refute, confute, deny, contradict, negate, overturn, overthrow, ruin, spoil, undermine, weaken, enfeeble, devitalize, exhaust, disable, cripple: By pointing out just one flaw, she destroyed his entire argument.
DEVELOP|13|v. 1 bring out or forth, advance, expand (on or upon), broaden, enlarge (on or upon), amplify, evolve, expatiate (on or upon), elaborate (on or upon), reveal, lay open, expose, unfold, disclose, bare, (cause to) grow, realize the potential (of); cultivate, improve, promote, exploit, strengthen: The plot is fine, but the characters need to be developed more fully. It is the aim of the school to develop the students' natural abilities. 2 (make) grow, mature, ripen, age, expand; flower, blossom, bloom, increase: You can't develop that idea without financial backing. These shrubs will be fully developed next year. 3 exhibit, display, show, demonstrate, manifest: She has recently developed an interest in cooking. 4 emerge, arise, appear, come out, come to light, evolve, originate, begin, commence, happen, occur, come about; come forth, result: A serious fault has developed in the rocket's fuel line. His natural talent for music developed when he joined the school band.
DEVIATE|11|v. 1 turn aside or away, swerve, veer, wander, stray, drift, digress, diverge; divert: He has chosen a path that deviates from the straight and narrow. --adj., n. 2 See deviant, 1, 3, above.
DEVILRY|14|n. 1 deviltry, mischief, mischievousness, roguery, naughtiness, rascality, roguishness, diablerie, archness, knavery, knavishness: His latest bit of devilry is hiding father's bedroom slippers. 2 deviltry, devilishness, wickedness, evil, fiendishness, diablerie, cruelty, malice, malevolence, viciousness, perversity, iniquity, hellishness, villainy: That traitor is up to some devilry.
DEVIOUS|8|adj. 1 deceitful, underhand(ed), insincere, deceptive, misleading, subreptitious, sneaky, furtive, surreptitious, secretive, double-dealing, treacherous, dishonest, shifty, smooth, slick, slippery, scheming, plotting, designing, foxy, vulpine, wily, sly, crafty, tricky Colloq crooked: The plot to poison the queen was the product of a devious mind. 2 indirect, roundabout, zigzag, evasive, circuitous, crooked, rambling, serpentine, tortuous, sinuous, anfractuous: That is about the most devious bit of reasoning I have ever heard!
DEVOTED|12|adj. faithful, true, dedicated, committed, devout, loyal, loving, doting, staunch, tender, staunch, steadfast, constant; ardent, loving, caring, fond, earnest, zealous, enthusiastic: Your brother was my most devoted friend throughout his life.
DEVOTEE|9|n. fan, aficionado, adherent, votary, enthusiast, addict, Colloq buff, fiend, US hound; Slang bug, nut, freak, US head, junkie, groupie: The band was followed about on tour by scores of screaming devotees of rock music.
DIALECT|10|n. speech (pattern), phraseology, idiom, accent, pronunciation, patois, vernacular; jargon, cant, slang, argot, language, tongue, Creole, pidgin; brogue, burr, Colloq lingo: Some of the regional dialects are hard to understand.
DICTATE|10|v. 1 say, prescribe, ordain, decree, demand, command, lay down (the law), order, direct, pronounce, impose: It is our leader who dictates what we may say and do. --n. 2 decree, demand, command, order, direction, instruction, charge, pronouncement, edict, fiat, ukase, mandate, caveat, injunction, requirement, bidding, behest: Each must act in accord with the dictates of his conscience.
DICTION|10|n. 1 language, wording, (verbal or writing) style, expression, usage, expressiveness, terminology, word choice, vocabulary, phraseology, phrasing, rhetoric: Please go over my paper and correct the diction. 2 articulation, pronunciation, enunciation, delivery, elocution, oratory, presentation, speech, intonation, inflection: That course in public speaking, improved Brian's diction enormously.
DIFFUSE|6|adj. 1 spread (out or about or around), scattered, dispersed, widespread; sparse, meagre, thin (on the ground): A few diffuse clouds could be seen on the horizon. 2 wordy, verbose, prolix, long-winded, loquacious, discursive, digressive, rambling, circumlocutory, meandering, roundabout, circuitous, periphrastic, ambagious, diffusive, pleonastic: The style of the book is very diffuse, being extravagantly uneconomic of expression. --v. 3 spread, circulate, distribute, dispense, disperse; dispel, scatter, broadcast, sow, disseminate; dissipate: The colour rapidly diffused, turning the liquid crimson. She has successfully diffused her ideas of female equality throughout the community.
DIGNIFY|15|v. distinguish, ennoble, elevate, raise, exalt, glorify, upraise, lift, uplift, enhance, improve, better, upgrade: The critic wrote that he wouldn't deign to dignify the book by calling it a novel.
DIGNITY|12|n. 1 nobility, majesty, gravity, gravitas, solemnity, courtliness, distinction, stateliness, formality, grandeur, eminence; hauteur, loftiness: She entered and walked with dignity to the throne. 2 worth, worthiness, nobility, nobleness, excellence, honour, honourableness, respectability, respectableness, standing, importance, greatness, glory, station, status, rank, level, position: The real dignity of a man lies not in what he has but in what he is. 3 self-respect, self-regard, amour propre, self-confidence, self-esteem, pride, self-importance: It was beneath her dignity to speak directly to a footman.
DISBAND|11|v. disperse, disorganize, scatter, break up, dissolve, demobilize, deactivate, retire: After the war, the special spy force was disbanded.
DISCARD|7|v. 1 get rid of, dispense with, dispose of, throw away or out, toss out or away, abandon, jettison, scrap, Colloq trash, dump, Slang ditch: We discarded boxes of old photographs when we moved house. --n. 2 reject, cast-off: I felt like a discard from the lonely hearts club.
DISCORD|7|n. strife, dissension, disagreement, conflict, disharmony, contention, disunity, discordance, division, incompatibility: The seeds of discord between the families were sown generations before.
DISCUSS|4|v. converse about, talk over or about, chat about, deliberate (over), review, examine, consult on; debate, argue, thrash out: We discussed the problem but came to no conclusion.
DISEASE|8|n. 1 sickness, affliction, ailment, malady, illness, infection, complaint, disorder, condition, infirmity, disability, Archaic murrain, Colloq bug: The colonel contracted the disease while in Malaysia. 2 blight, cancer, virus, plague; contagion: Panic spread through the Exchange like an infectious disease.
DISGUST|9|v. 1 sicken, offend, nauseate, repel, revolt, put off, outrage, appal, Slang gross out: His patronizing attitude disgusts those who work for him. --n. 2 revulsion, nausea, sickness, repugnance, fulsomeness, outrage, distaste, aversion: One look at the food filled me with disgust. 3 loathing, contempt, hatred, abhorrence, odium, animus, animosity, enmity, antagonism, antipathy, dislike: Some feel disgust at the thought of eating insects.
DISLIKE|12|v. 1 be averse to, mind, turn from, disfavour, disesteem, be put or turned off by; hate, loathe, scorn, despise, contemn, detest, abominate, execrate: I no longer dislike spinach. --n. 2 aversion, displeasure, distaste, disfavour, disesteem, disrelish, disaffection, disinclination; loathing, hatred, animus, animosity, antipathy, detestation, contempt, execration, ill will; disgust, repugnance; hostility, antagonism: I took an instant dislike to the fellow. She feels an intense dislike for her father.
DISMISS|8|v. 1 discharge, oust, release, give notice (to), let go, lay off, throw out, toss out, remove, Chiefly military cashier, Old-fashioned military drum out, Brit politics deselect, Colloq fire, send packing, kick out, Brit sack, give (someone) the sack, boot (out), turn off, US give (someone) his or her walking papers, give (someone) a pink slip, can; Slang give (someone) the (old) heave-ho: Gabney has been dismissed without notice. 2 reject, set aside, repudiate, spurn, discount, disregard, lay aside, put out of one's mind, think no more of, write off, banish, have or be done with, scorn, discard, ignore, shrug off; belittle, diminish, pooh-pooh: She dismissed the story as just so much gossip. 3 disperse, release, disband, send away: After returning from the mission, the commando unit was dismissed.
DISOBEY|13|v. defy, break, contravene, flout, disregard, ignore, resist, oppose, violate, transgress, overstep, go counter to, fly in the face of, infringe, thumb one's nose at, snap one's fingers at, Brit cock a snook at; mutiny, rebel, revolt, strike: You cannot play because you disobeyed the rules. If anyone disobeys, throw him in irons.
DISPLAY|13|v. 1 show, exhibit, air, put or set forth, make visible, expose, evince, manifest, demonstrate, betray, reveal, unveil, disclose; advertise, publicize: Her paintings are being displayed at the gallery today. 2 unfurl, unfold, spread or stretch or open out, present: The ship suddenly displayed the Jolly Roger. 3 show off, flaunt, parade, flourish, vaunt, Colloq flash: He goes on those quiz programmes only to display his knowledge. --n. 4 show, exhibition, exhibit, presentation, array; demonstration; exposition, manifestation, revelation: We visited a display of weapons at the armoury. I have seldom seen such a display of ignorance. 5 ostentation, spectacle, flourish, show, parade, ceremony, pageantry, pageant, splendour, array, panoply, magnificence, grandeur, pomp, splash, ÷clat, ÷lan, dash: The display put on for Queen Victoria's jubilee was truly lavish.
DISPOSE|10|v. 1 place, arrange, move, adjust, order, array, organize, set up, situate, group, distribute, put: She is planning how to dispose the furniture in the room. 2 incline, influence, persuade, induce, bend, tempt, move, motivate, lead, prompt, urge: Her actions disposed me to cut her out of my will. 3 dispose of. a deal with, settle, decide, determine, conclude, finish (with): I hope we can dispose of these matters quickly. b throw away or out, discard, get rid of, jettison, scrap, Colloq dump, junk, US trash: Dispose of the remains of the broken chair. c distribute, give out, deal out, give (away), dispense, apportion, parcel out, allot, part with, transfer, make over, bestow, sell: My grandfather disposed of his wealth before he died. d do away with, finish off, put away, demolish, destroy, consume, devour, eat, Slang kill (off), knock off, polish off: She could dispose of four hamburgers at one sitting. The boys disposed of Louie because he knew too much.
DISROBE|10|v. undress, strip, bare oneself: She disrobed and put on a swimsuit.
DISRUPT|10|v. 1 disorder, upset, disorganize, disturb, unsettle, shake up, disconcert, agitate: You've disrupted my plan completely. 2 interrupt, break in or into, interfere (with): They disrupted the meeting with their loud outbursts.
DISTANT|8|adj. 1 far, far-off, remote, far-away, long-way-off; removed: The creature said he had come from a distant star. 2 away, off: The ship is ten miles distant. 3 aloof, detached, reserved, cool, cold, haughty, standoffish, unapproachable, inaccessible, withdrawn, reticent, ceremonious, formal, stiff, rigid, frigid, unfriendly: You find him warm, but I think him very distant.
DISTORT|8|v. 1 twist, warp, deform, misshape, contort, gnarl, bend, disfigure, wrench: The car was completely distorted in the crash. 2 twist, warp, slant, tamper with, colour, varnish, torture, pervert, misrepresent, fabricate, falsify, misstate, alter, change, bend, garble, violate: She distorted the facts if she said it was Bill who had a gun.
DISTURB|10|v. 1 interrupt, disrupt, intrude (on), inconvenience, put out, interfere (with); bother, pester, annoy, irritate, irk, upset, plague, hector, harry, harass, worry, vex, provoke, pique, peeve, get on (someone's) nerves, Colloq bug, miff, get under (someone's) skin, get in (someone's) hair, drive nuts or crazy or bats or batty or bananas or up the wall, hassle: The sound of dripping water disturbed me. Please do not disturb the animals. 2 agitate, stir or churn (up), shake (up), unsettle, roil, disorder: The lake's surface was violently disturbed by an enormous creature. 3 unsettle, affect, upset, damage, harm, destroy: We put the delicate mechanism where it wouldn't be disturbed by curious visitors. 4 trouble, disconcert, discomfit, perturb, ruffle, fluster, upset, agitate, put off, bother, discommode, put out, unsettle, distress; alarm, Colloq shake (up): He was greatly disturbed by the death of his father. 5 affect, upset, confound, confuse, change, put off, ruin, destroy, cancel, make ineffectual or ineffective, negate: Any change in temperature will disturb the results of the experiment.
DISUSED|9|adj. abandoned, neglected, unused; discontinued, obsolete, archaic: We had to sleep in a disused railway carriage.
DIVERGE|12|v. 1 separate, radiate, spread (apart), divide, subdivide, fork, branch (off or out), ramify, split: The roads diverge further on. 2 deviate, turn aside or away, wander, digress, stray, depart, drift, divagate: Our policy diverges from that set up by the committee.
DIVERSE|11|adj. different, varied, diversified, multiform, various, assorted, mixed, miscellaneous; distinctive, distinct, separate, varying, discrete, dissimilar, differing, divergent, heterogeneous: Diverse subjects are available for study.
DIVORCE|13|n. 1 separation, split, split-up, dissolution, severance, disunion, break-up: Their divorce after twenty years surprised everyone. --v. 2 separate, divide, split (up), part, sever, detach, dissociate, disassociate; dissolve: A splinter group has divorced itself from the main party. We were divorced last year.
DORMANT|10|adj. 1 asleep, sleeping, slumbering, resting, at rest, quiet, inactive, still, inert, unmoving, motionless, stationary, immobile, quiescent, comatose, torpid, hibernating, slumberous, somnolent, sleepy, lethargic, dull, sluggish: The bears are dormant during much of the winter. 2 latent, potential, hidden, concealed, undisclosed, unrevealed, unexpressed: The theory lay dormant for centuries and has only recently been revived.
DRASTIC|10|adj. violent, severe, extreme, strong, powerful, potent, puissant, fierce, forceful, vigorous, rigorous, harsh, radical, Draconian, desperate, dire: I shall have to take drastic measures if this misbehaviour continues.
DRAUGHT|12|n. 1 breeze, breath (of air), (light) wind, current (of air), puff (of air or wind): You'll get a cold sitting in the draught. 2 dose, portion, measure, quantity, drink, swallow, sip, nip, tot, potation, dram, gulp, Colloq swig, tipple: The doctor recommended a draught of this tonic before meals.
DREAMER|10|n. fantasizer, visionary, idealist, romantic, romanticist, idealizer, Utopian; day-dreamer, escapist, fantasizer, star-gazer: If you think people change, you're a dreamer.
DUNGEON|9|n. donjon, keep, cell, prison, lock-up, oubliette, black hole, stronghold: Throw the infidels into the dungeon and give them twenty lashes!
DURABLE|5|adj. enduring, long-lasting, stable, wear-resistant, heavy-duty, hard-wearing, long-wearing, lasting, persistent, indestructible, substantial, sturdy, tough, stout, strong, firm, sound, fixed, fast, permanent, dependable, reliable: The product is durable, guaranteed to last a lifetime.
DUTIFUL|11|adj. obedient, compliant, willing, obliging, filial, faithful, conscientious, reliable, responsible, diligent, attentive, punctilious, respectful, polite, considerate, deferential, submissive, yielding, acquiescent, malleable, flexible, pliant, accommodating, Formal or archaic duteous: A dutiful son, he visits his parents weekly.
DYNAMIC|15|adj. dynamical, vigorous, active, forceful, energetic, potent, powerful, high-powered, lively, spry, vital, electric, spirited, zealous, eager, emphatic: We are seeking a dynamic salesman for our Reading office.
DYNASTY|14|n. line, family, heritage, house: The Ming dynasty ruled China for more than 300 years.
EARTHLY|8|adj. 1 terrestrial, terrene, telluric: Extraterrestrial beings might be unable to survive in our earthly atmosphere. 2 worldly, mundane, material, materialistic, physical, non-spiritual, sensual, carnal, fleshly, corporeal, base, natural: He has forsaken earthly pleasures in favour of spiritual pursuits. 3 human, temporal, secular, profane, mortal, physical, non-spiritual, material: His earthly remains were committed to the sea. 4 conceivable, imaginable, feasible, possible: What earthly reason could she have had for kissing me?
ECLIPSE|11|v. 1 conceal, hide, blot out, obscure, block, veil, shroud, cover, darken: A black cloud eclipsed the moon. 2 overshadow, obscure, surpass, top, outshine: His career was eclipsed by his wife's brilliant successes. --n. 3 concealment, covering, hiding, blocking, blockage, occultation, obscuring, obscuration, darkening, shading, dimming: Though good may suffer an eclipse, it can never be extinguished. 4 decline, downturn, slump; recession: After the scandal, her career went into eclipse.
ECONOMY|14|n. 1 thrift, husbandry, thriftiness, conservation, conservatism, saving, restraint, control, frugality: We'll have to exercise economy to get through the winter. 2 brevity, briefness, succinctness, terseness, conciseness, concision, compactness, restraint, curtness: He manages to get his ideas across with an admirable economy of language.
ECSTASY|12|n. 1 delight, joy, rapture, bliss, transport, nympholepsy or nympholepsia, happiness, gladness, elation, pleasure, enjoyment, gratification; heaven on earth: The prospect of being with her again filled me with ecstasy. 2 exaltation, frenzy, thrill, elation, paroxysm, excitement: The ecstasy of space flight is impossible to describe.
EDITION|8|n. number, issue, printing, print run; copy; version: The first Monday edition carried the news of the break-in, and a later edition reported the detention of a suspect.
EDUCATE|10|v. teach, train, instruct, edify, tutor, school, inform, enlighten, indoctrinate, inculcate, coach, drill, prepare, ready, rear, bring up, cultivate, develop, civilize: It is the responsibility of the state to educate the people.
EFFECTS|7|n.pl. belongings, (personal) property, gear, possessions, stuff, things, paraphernalia, chattels, goods, Colloq junk, crap, Brit clobber, Taboo slang US shit: His personal effects were left scattered around the house.
ELDERLY|11|adj. 1 old, past middle age, oldish, advanced in years, of advanced age, along in years, grey, ageing, aged, venerable; hoary, ancient, senescent, decrepit, superannuated; senile, anile; Colloq over the hill, past it, long in the tooth, having one foot in the grave, old-fogyish or old-fogeyish: Today, a person isn't considered elderly till he's past 65. --n. 2 the elderly. the retired, the old, senior citizens, pensioners, O.A.P.'s, old-age pensioners, golden-agers, Colloq old-timers, (old) geezers, (old) fogies or fogeys, Brit wrinklies: The elderly constitute an increasingly large body of voters.
ELEGANT|8|adj. 1 tasteful, exquisite, handsome, beautiful, comely, dapper, smart, well turned out; graceful, choice, superior, fine, select, refined, delicate, discerning, artistic; dignified, genteel, sophisticated, cultivated, polished, urbane, Chesterfieldian, suave, soign÷(e), debonair, courtly, to the manner born, well-bred, well-born, high-born: Desmond and Elizabeth are such an elegant couple! 2 artistic, stylish, modish, å la mode, chic, fashionable, Colloq in, with it: The newly refurbished rooms are very elegant. 3 luxurious, sumptuous, grand, opulent, plush, Colloq posh, swank, swanky, ritzy, fancy: We stayed in a very elegant West End hotel. 4 apt, clever, ingenious, neat: What is needed is a more elegant solution to the problem.
ELEMENT|9|n. 1 component, constituent, ingredient, essential, fundamental, part, unit, piece, segment, feature, factor, detail, particular: Each element was carefully designed with a view to its place in the whole. 2 environment, atmosphere, situation, locale, territory, sphere, habitat, medium, domain: Ordway is really in his element at a party. 3 elements. a (adverse or unfavourable) weather, climatic conditions: Stay here tonight - there's no need to brave the elements. b rudiments, basics, fundamentals, foundations, essentials, principles: It was she who taught me the elements of flying a helicopter.
ELUSIVE|10|adj. 1 evasive, slippery, tricky, shifty: One of the world's most elusive guerrilla leaders was spotted in public yesterday. 2 evasive, evanescent, fleeting, fugitive, transitory, indefinable, elusory, intangible, impalpable: The notion of truth has always been elusive.
EMINENT|9|adj. 1 distinguished, esteemed, exalted, respected, revered, honoured, dignified, notable, noteworthy, important, noted, outstanding, prominent, pre-eminent, conspicuous, superior, great, illustrious, famous, renowned, well-known, celebrated: McLeod is an eminent meteorologist. 2 conspicuous, outstanding, marked: His suggestion made eminent good sense.
ENCHANT|5|v. 1 bewitch, cast a spell on, ensorcell or ensorcel, spellbind, hypnotize, mesmerize, voodoo, Brit magic, US hex, Colloq hoodoo: Circe enchanted Ulysses' men and turned them into swine. 2 charm, fascinate, beguile, captivate, enthral, enrapture, attract, allure, delight, entrance: With her sultry looks she has enchanted the most cynical of men.
ENCLOSE|9|v. 1 inclose, confine, shut in, close or hem in, surround, pen, encircle, encompass, bound, envelop, hedge in, wall in, immure, fence in or off, US and Canadian corral: A high wall encloses the garden. 2 insert, include, contain; wrap: The cheque was enclosed in the same envelope.
ENDLESS|6|adj. 1 limitless, unlimited, boundless, unbounded, infinite, immeasurable, eternal, unending: They found themselves in the endless reaches of outer space. 2 ceaseless, uninterrupted, incessant, unceasing, unending, constant, perpetual, interminable, unremitting, non-stop, continuous, continual, everlasting: I wish you two would stop your endless bickering.
ENDORSE|8|v. 1 indorse, approve, sanction, authorize, advocate, support, back, subscribe to, sustain, confirm, countenance, put one's stamp or seal (of approval) on, set one's seal (of approval) to, give (something) one's imprimatur, Colloq OK, okay: The council endorsed our application for planning permission. 2 indorse, countersign: Endorse the cheque to cash it.
ENFORCE|12|v. 1 insist upon or on, stress, require, impose, support, put into effect, apply, administer, carry out, inflict, bring to bear, implement, prosecute, discharge; reinforce; Colloq crack or clamp down: The police will enforce the curfew tonight. 2 force, compel, pressure or Brit pressurize, press, coerce, lay stress upon or on, impose upon or on, impress upon or on, insist upon or on, demand, require; intimidate, browbeat, bully, railroad; Colloq lean on, twist (someone's) arm: They hired thugs to enforce their claim.
ENGAGED|10|adj. 1 betrothed, affianced, plighted, pledged, promised; spoken for: They got engaged on St Valentine's Day. 2 busy, occupied, tied up, involved, employed, absorbed, preoccupied, wrapped up: He is otherwise engaged and cannot meet me today.
ENHANCE|12|v. improve, better, augment, boost, raise, elevate, lift, heighten, exalt, enlarge, swell, magnify, increase, add to, amplify, intensify, enrich, embellish, complement, reinforce, strengthen: His public image was greatly enhanced by his support of charities.
ENLIVEN|10|v. 1 invigorate, inspirit, animate, pep up, stimulate, energize, vivify, vitalize, quicken, exhilarate, arouse, rouse, awaken, wake up, spark (off), kindle, enkindle, fire (up), inspire: Enlivened by the coach's talk, we were determined to win. 2 brighten, cheer (up), buoy (up), gladden, uplift: The room was considerably enlivened by the new curtains.
ENQUIRE|5|v. 1 inquire, ask, question, query: The police enquired whether we had noticed any strange goings-on next door. 2 See inquire.
ENSLAVE|10|v. subjugate, yoke, fetter, enchain, shackle, trammel, dominate; bind, indenture, Archaic enthral: The enslaved masses rose and overcame their masters.
ENTITLE|7|v. 1 allow, permit, qualify, make eligible, authorize, fit; enfranchise, license, empower: This document entitles her to half of the estate. 2 name, title, call, label, nickname, dub, designate, term; christen, baptize: His first novel was entitled Out of the Depths .
ENTWINE|10|v. intwine, interlace, braid, interweave, intertwine, weave, knit, plait, twist, coil, twine, splice; entangle, tangle: Her hair was entwined with wild flowers.
ENVELOP|12|v. 1 wrap, enclose, enfold, enwrap, cover, engulf, swathe, shroud, enshroud, swaddle: The body was enveloped in a white robe. 2 shroud, enshroud, cover, conceal, hide, screen, shield, obscure, veil, cloak: The motive for the murder was enveloped in a mass of misleading clues.
ENVIOUS|7|adj. jealous, covetous, resentful, begrudging, green-eyed, green (with envy), desirous: He is envious of his wife because she has a better job.
EPICURE|11|n. gourmet, connoisseur, aesthete, epicurean, sybarite, hedonist, gastronome, bon viveur, bon vivant, Lucullus; gourmand: An epicure, he refuses to eat any food not prepared by his own chef.
EPISODE|10|n. 1 event, incident, occurrence, happening, experience, adventure, affair, matter: Please do not remind me of the episode with the chicken. 2 chapter, scene, instalment, part: Don't miss tonight's episode of your favourite soap opera.
EQUABLE|2|adj. 1 even-tempered, easygoing, serene, calm, placid, composed, cool, imperturbable, collected, unruffled, tranquil, peaceful, level-headed, Colloq unflappable: With his equable temperament, Edgar is the man for the job. 2 uniform, unvarying, unvaried, consistent, stable, steady, regular, even, unchanging, invariable, constant: We moved to the Caribbean because of its equable climate.
EROSION|7|n. wear (and tear), wearing (down or away), wasting away, washing or grinding or rubbing away, corroding, corrosion, abrading, abrasion, eating or gnawing away, chafing, fraying, weathering, attrition: Erosion by rainwater has washed away the topsoil.
ESSENCE|7|n. 1 quintessence, quiddity, (essential) nature, substance, spirit, being, heart, core, pith, kernel, marrow, soul, significance, (active) principle, crux, cornerstone, foundation-stone, Colloq bottom line: The essence of her argument is that animals have the same rights as people. 2 extract, concentrate, distillate, elixir, tincture: The room smelled faintly of essence of roses. 3 in essence. essentially, basically, fundamentally, materially, substantially, at bottom, in the final analysis, au fond; in effect, virtually: In essence, there is little to choose between Trotskyism and Stalinism. 4 of the essence. essential, critical, crucial, vital, indispensable, requisite, important: In this job, time is of the essence.
ETERNAL|7|adj. 1 everlasting, timeless, infinite, endless, immortal, limitless: They pledged eternal love for one another. 2 unending, endless, ceaseless, unceasing, incessant, perpetual, constant, continuous, interminable, uninterrupted, non-stop, unremitting, persistent, relentless; continual, recurrent: I'm sick and tired of my neighbours' eternal arguing. 3 unchanged, unchanging, immutable, invariable, unvarying, unalterable, permanent, fixed, constant, everlasting, enduring, lasting, undiminished, unfaltering, unwavering: To the north there was only the eternal silence of the greatest desolation.
EVASION|10|n. 1 escape, avoidance, shirking, dodging: They disapproved of his evasion of his civic duties. 2 subterfuge, deception, deceit, chicane or chicanery, artifice, cunning, trickery, sophistry, excuse, dodging, prevarication, lying, fudging, evasiveness, quibbling, equivocation, double-talk: All the interviewers' questions were met with evasion.
EVASIVE|13|adj. devious, indirect, equivocating, equivocal, misleading, oblique, ambiguous, sophistical, casuistic, shifty, dissembling, cunning, tricky, deceitful, Colloq cagey, Jesuitical: When asked if he had visited her, he gave an evasive reply. She too was evasive about how she had spent the evening.
EVENING|7|n. nightfall, eventide, dusk, sunset, sundown, p.m., Literary gloaming: The Klincks will join us for dinner this evening.
EXACTLY|19|adv. 1 accurately, precisely, strictly, perfectly, correctly, unerringly, faultlessly, faithfully, scrupulously, literally, to the letter, word for word, verbatim, closely; methodically, systematically: She translated the passage exactly, with no errors. 2 definitely, absolutely, positively, undeniably, surely, certainly, unequivocally, completely, in every respect, in all respects, particularly, specifically, explicitly, just, quite, expressly, precisely, accurately, truly, Colloq Brit bang on: This is exactly the kind of house we want.
EXALTED|15|adj. 1 elevated, lofty, high, eminent, notable, noted, prominent, famous, famed, celebrated, distinguished, dignified, honoured, prestigious, glorified, sublime, grand: During his later life he enjoyed an exalted reputation. 2 elevated, noble, lofty, superior, uplifting, heightened, high-flown; exaggerated, pretentious, overblown, inflated: His writing is euphuistic, that is, flowery or exalted. She has an exalted notion of her importance. 3 elated, excited, exultant, ecstatic, jubilant, overjoyed, joyful, rapturous, transported, blissful, happy, joyous, in seventh heaven, uplifted, Colloq on cloud nine, Brit over the moon: They were in too exalted a mood to be interested in such mundane matters.
EXAMINE|16|v. 1 investigate, scrutinize, study, peruse, scan, pore over, analyse, sift, inspect, inquire or enquire into, go over or through or into, look over or into, probe, search, explore, research, survey, check up on, check (out), appraise, assess, weigh, Brit vet, Slang case: The theory will be examined thoroughly. 2 test; interrogate, quiz, catechize, cross-examine, question, sound out, Colloq grill, pump: The director closely examined all applicants for the position.
EXAMPLE|18|n. 1 instance, case, sample, specimen, illustration: If this is an example of your work, I'm afraid we aren't interested. 2 model, prototype, standard, archetype, exemplar, pattern, benchmark, norm, criterion: You should set an example to the children. 3 warning, admonition, lesson: The judge made an example of him by giving him the maximum sentence. 4 for example. for instance, as a case in point, as an illustration or example, by way of illustration, to illustrate, e.g. or eg, exempli gratia: Consider, for example, the following poem by Wordsworth.
EXCERPT|18|n. 1 extract, selection, quotation, citation, passage, pericope: The speaker read excerpts from well-known writers. --v. 2 extract, select, quote, cite, cull (out), pick (out), take: Parts of this book were excerpted from his earlier writings.
EXCITED|13|adj. 1 (a)roused, stirred (up), stimulated, agitated, disturbed, perturbed, upset, worked up, wrought up, wound up, keyed up, overwrought, discomposed, disconcerted, discomfited, nervous, edgy, on edge, uneasy, flustered, ruffled, fidgety, frantic, frenetic, aflame, feverish, frenzied, hysterical, beside oneself, Colloq itchy, (all) hot and bothered, high, on a high, off the deep end, out of one's mind: Turner was in a very excited state by the time the police arrived. Don't get so excited just because he called you a name. 2 ardent, zealous, impassioned, passionate, eager, energized, energetic, active, brisk, animated, lively, spirited, fervid, fervent, vehement, stimulated, enthusiastic, galvanized, electrified, intoxicated, Colloq turned on: The excited children scrambled into the boat. She becomes excited listening to rock 'n' roll.
EXCLAIM|18|v. call or cry (out), proclaim, vociferate, utter, declare, ejaculate, shout, yell, bawl, bellow, burst out (with), blurt out, Colloq holler: 'It's a girl!' he exclaimed.
EXCLUDE|17|v. 1 Often, exclude from. keep out or away, lock or shut out, ban, bar, debar, prohibit, interdict, forbid, proscribe, deny, refuse, disallow: Women are excluded from participating in certain religious ceremonies. Must we exclude Maria, too? 2 eliminate, leave out, reject, omit, except, preclude, repudiate, count out: Exclude them from consideration as candidates. 3 eject, evict, expel, oust, get rid of, remove, throw out, Colloq toss out, Slang bounce: He was excluded from the club because of his behaviour.
EXECUTE|16|v. 1 accomplish, do, carry out or off or through, perform, discharge, dispatch or despatch, bring about or off, implement, engineer, cause, Colloq pull off, put over, Slang US swing, cut, hack (out): She executes her duties satisfactorily. 2 complete, finish, deliver; achieve, consummate, fulfil, effect, effectuate; sign, seal, validate, countersign: He executed the portrait in an hour. The contract was executed yesterday. 3 put to death, kill, put to the sword, butcher; liquidate, assassinate, murder, remove, slay, Slang bump off, rub or wipe out, snuff (out), knock off, US waste, ice: Convicted murderers are no longer executed in this country. The mob executed the rival gangleaders.
EXHAUST|17|v. 1 use (up), expend, consume, finish, deplete, spend, dissipate, run through, squander, waste, fritter away, Slang blow: In less than a year, he had exhausted all his funds. 2 tire (out), fatigue, weary, wear out, enervate, fag, overtire, sap, strain, tax, weaken, prostrate, debilitate, disable, Colloq frazzle: Working sixty hours a week would exhaust anyone. 3 empty, drain, evacuate, void, clean or clear out: The pump is used to exhaust the chamber of air. 4 overdo, overwork, treat thoroughly, deplete, drain, empty: I think we've exhausted that topic. 5 empty (out), drain (off or out), vent, issue, escape, discharge, run out: The fumes exhaust through this tube. --n. 6 emanation, effluent, emission, fumes, gas: Car exhausts are polluting the atmosphere.
EXHIBIT|19|v. show, display, present, offer, expose; show off, parade, brandish, flaunt; demonstrate, reveal, betray, manifest, exemplify, evince, evidence, disclose, express: Her paintings are widely exhibited. Such behaviour exhibits poor judgement.
EXPANSE|16|n. stretch, extent, area, space, range, sweep, reach, length and breadth, spread: The vast expanses of space are yet to be explored.
EXPENSE|16|n. 1 Often, expenses. payment, costs, outlay, outgoings, disbursement, expenditure, spending, out-of-pocket (expenses); cost, price, charge, fee, rate: Keep your expenses to a minimum. Expenses for travel and entertainment will be reimbursed by the company. 2 detriment, sacrifice, cost, loss, impairment, ruin, destruction: They continue to smoke at the expense of their health.
EXPLODE|17|v. 1 blow up, burst, blast, fly apart, go off, erupt, fulminate; set off, detonate: Police exploded the bomb after clearing the area. Rockets exploded in the night sky. 2 reject, discredit, refute, repudiate, disprove, debunk, belie, give the lie to, Slang pick holes in, poke or shoot full of holes: Ptolemy's geocentric theory has been thoroughly exploded. 3 lose one's temper, rant, rave, rage, storm, throw a tantrum, Colloq get into a tizzy, blow one's top, fly off the handle, go through or hit the roof, hit the ceiling; Slang lose one's cool, go up the wall, US blow one's stack or cool, flip (one's lid), freak out: He exploded when he learned his car had been smashed up.
EXPLOIT|16|n. 1 achievement, deed, feat, attainment, accomplishment: The speaker regaled them with tales of his exploits as an explorer. --v. 2 use, take advantage of, manipulate, make capital out of, profit from, utilize, turn to account, manoeuvre, work: Far from being your friends, they are exploiting you for their own purposes. They need capital to exploit the country's natural resources.
EXPRESS|14|v. 1 articulate, verbalize, phrase, utter, voice, state, word, put (into words), set or put forth, put or get across, communicate, depict, portray; say, speak, tell: She expressed her thoughts on the subject very clearly. 2 show, indicate, demonstrate, manifest, exhibit, evince, evidence, reveal, expose, disclose, divulge, make known, intimate, betoken, signify, embody, depict, designate, denote, convey: His tone of voice expressed his resentment. 3 symbolize, represent, signify, stand for, denote, designate: The ratio can be expressed in the form of a fraction. 4 press or squeeze or wring or force out, expel, extract: The oil is expressed from ripe olives. --adj. 5 explicit, clear, plain, unambiguous, unmistakable, unqualified, outright, definite, out-and-out, downright, straightforward, categorical, direct, specific, well-defined, distinct, precise, accurate, exact, positive: We had an express understanding not to enter into competition with one another. 6 specific, special, particular, clear-cut; true: Our express purpose in coming was to see you. 7 quick, speedy, swift, fast, rapid, prompt, immediate; direct, non-stop: The documents must be sent by express delivery.
EXTINCT|16|adj. 1 defunct, dead, died out, gone, departed, vanished: These are the bones of an extinct species of flying mammal. 2 dated, outmoded, old-fashioned, antiquated, obsolete, archaic, out of date, antediluvian, ancient, old hat, pass÷, d÷mod÷: High-button shoes and bustles have been extinct for almost a century. 3 out, extinguished, quenched, burnt- or put or snuffed out; inactive, dormant: The lake is in the caldera of an extinct volcano.
EXTRACT|16|v. 1 draw or pull (out), remove, withdraw, pluck or take out, draw forth, extricate: The dentist extracted two teeth. I extracted some important papers from your waste-paper basket. 2 draw, derive, deduce, develop, glean, extricate, distil, get, obtain: I could extract little sense from her ramblings. 3 wrench, wring, wrest, extort, draw (forth), evoke, elicit, extricate, winkle out, worm (out), prise (out), force (out): Using torture, they finally extracted a confession from him. She extracted money from her victims by threatening to tell their wives. 4 copy, quote, cite, abstract, select, choose, glean, cull: We extracted useful material from some old encyclopedias. --n. 5 concentrate, distillate, essence, distillation, quintessence, concentration, extraction, decoction: We boiled off the water and used the extract as a salve. 6 excerpt, abstract, quotation, citation, clipping, cutting, passage, selection: Extracts from other works are printed in smaller type.
EXTREME|16|adj. 1 unusual, uncommon, exceptional, outstanding, notable, noteworthy, abnormal, different, extraordinary, remarkable: We experienced extreme difficulty driving home. 2 immoderate, excessive, severe, intense, acute, maximum, worst: This equipment is made to withstand extreme arctic conditions. 3 outermost, endmost, farthest, ultimate, utmost, uttermost, remotest, last, far-off, far-away, distant, very: She walked to the extreme end of the pier. 4 rigid, stern, severe, strict, conservative, hidebound, stiff, stringent, restrictive, constrictive, uncompromising, Draconian, harsh, drastic: Grandfather favoured taking extreme measures against terrorists. 5 unconventional, radical, outrageous, wild, weird, bizarre, queer, outrageous, offbeat, exotic, eccentric, different, outr÷, Slang far-out, way-out, US and Canadian kooky: I find your outfit too extreme to wear in public. 6 beyond the pale or limits or bounds, extravagant, inordinate, excessive, disproportionate, outrageous: Because of your extreme behaviour, you will be confined to the house for a week. --n. 7 Often, extremes. limit(s), bounds, utmost, maximum, Colloq swing: Try to be more moderate and to avoid extremes. 8 Often, go to extremes. limit(s), bounds, maximum, acme, zenith, pinnacle, summit, height, apex, apogee, peak, extremity; depth, nadir: Thea's moods varied between the extremes of joy and grief. 9 in the extreme. extremely, very, exceptionally, exceedingly, extraordinarily, unusually: His table manners are rude in the extreme.
FACTION|12|n. 1 group, cabal, bloc, cadre, camp, splinter group, circle, camarilla, clique, set, coterie, lobby, pressure group, junta or junto, ring, gang, Brit ginger group, Colloq crowd: There is a small faction plotting to assassinate the finance minister. 2 dissension, intrigue, strife, sedition, disharmony, discord, disagreement, quarrelling, contention, controversy, infighting, rupture, split, rift, schism, clash: Faction within the party has no regard for national interests.
FACTORY|15|n. works, mill, plant: She has a job at the piano factory.
FACTUAL|12|adj. 1 actual, real, true, authentic, verifiable, realistic, true to life, genuine, valid, bona fide: The report is a forgery, but the letters are factual. 2 accurate, correct, true, correct, faithful, precise, unbiased, undistorted, unvarnished, unexaggerated, objective, unprejudiced, straightforward: This is a factual account of the Battle of Marathon.
FACULTY|15|n. 1 ability, capacity, skill, aptitude, potential, talent, flair, knack, gift, genius; dexterity, adroitness, cleverness, capability: She has a faculty for making people feel at home. 2 school, department, discipline: Her graduate studies were in the Faculty of Philosophy. 3 staff, personnel, members, Brit dons: Each member of the faculty has a doctorate. 4 power, authorization, dispensation, sanction, licence, prerogative, privilege, right, permission, liberty: The government has the faculty to judge treasonable acts.
FAILING|7|n. 1 weakness, shortcoming, foible, flaw, fault, defect, weak spot, blind spot, blemish, imperfection: Bigotry and prejudice are her most serious failings. --prep. 2 lacking, wanting, in default of, without, sans, in the absence of: Failing a favourable decision, we shall lodge an appeal.
FALLACY|13|n. misconception, miscalculation, misjudgement, mistake, error, non sequitur, solecism, delusion; paralogism; sophism: It is a fallacy to think that you could ever learn to play the violin as well as Susannah.
FALSIFY|16|v. fake, alter, distort, misstate, misrepresent, twist, Colloq fudge, trump up, Brit cook: The tax inspector found that the accounts had been falsified.
FANATIC|12|n. maniac, extremist, zealot, Colloq fiend, nut, Slang freak: Religious fanatics killed 'heathens' or 'infidels' by the thousand.
FANFARE|13|n. 1 flourish, fanfaron, fanfaronade, (trumpet-)blast or blare: Following a loud fanfare, the toreador strutted into the ring. 2 hullabaloo, hubbub, brouhaha, commotion, stir, ado, show, fuss, Colloq to-do, ballyhoo: Despite the enormous fanfare, the film was a failure.
FANTASY|13|n. 1 imagination, fancy, creativity, inventiveness, creativity, originality: We encourage the children to give free rein to their fantasy. 2 vision, hallucination, illusion, mirage, delusion, chimera, dream, day-dream, (flight of) fancy, pipedream: Her fantasy is to become prime minister. 3 make-believe, invention, cabrication, fiction, masquerade, fable, concoction, pretence: His story about being an orphan is pure fantasy.
FARAWAY|16|adj. 1 faraway, distant, remote, far-off, outlying, far-flung: People came from far-away places as news of the miracle spread. 2 faraway, dreamy, detached, absent, absent-minded, abstracted: When you have that far-away expression, I know you don't hear a word I say.
FARMING|9|n. agriculture, agronomy, husbandry, agribusiness, cultivation: Less than 8,000 years ago man turned from hunting and gathering to farming.
FASHION|8|n. 1 style, mode, vogue, trend, look, taste: That year there was a fashion for stiletto heels. 2 the fad, mania, the craze, the rage, the latest (thing), dernier cri, Colloq Brit the go: He remembers when upswept hair-dos were the fashion. 3 manner, mode, way, approach, attitude: I'll always be true to you, darling, in my fashion. 4 in fashion. See fashionable, below. --v. 5 make, model, style, shape, form, frame, mould, create, construct, forge, work, manufacture: She fashions the most beautiful vases out of shapeless lumps of clay.
FATEFUL|13|adj. 1 significant, momentous, ominous, major, consequential, important, critical, crucial, decisive, weighty, portentous, earth-shaking, pivotal: The minister is faced with having to make a fateful decision. 2 deadly, lethal, fatal, destructive, ruinous, disastrous, catastrophic, cataclysmic: Failure to preserve the environment could have fateful consequences.
FATIGUE|11|n. 1 weariness, tiredness, weakness, exhaustion, lassitude, listlessness, lethargy, languor, sluggishness, enervation: She kept on tending the wounded till fatigue finally overcame her. --v. 2 weary, tire, weaken, exhaust, drain, enervate, Colloq fag (out): My morning's work had fatigued me.
FATNESS|8|n. obesity, stoutness, corpulence, embonpoint, portliness, plumpness, chubbiness, rotundity, podginess or chiefly US pudginess: His fatness is owing to a glandular condition, not overeating.
FEARFUL|13|adj. 1 afraid, scared, frightened, terrified, alarmed, panic-stricken, terror-stricken: Of all disasters, I am most fearful of fire. 2 hesitant, timid, timorous, shy, diffident, unwilling, intimidated, jumpy, nervous, edgy, panicky, anxious, apprehensive, cowardly, pusillanimous, Colloq yellow, jittery: Why is she so fearful of meeting her prospective in-laws? 3 awful, dire, dreadful, frightful, frightening, terrifying, terrible, appalling, ghastly, atrocious, horrible, horrifying, horrendous, horrific, hideous, gruesome, grisly, grim, baleful, monstrous, unspeakable, loathsome, heinous, repugnant, repulsive, revolting, disgusting, nauseating, nauseous: The fearful monster blocked our only way out.
FEELING|5|n. 1 (sense of) touch, sensitivity, sense, perception, sensation, sensibility: I had no feeling in my left side. 2 intuition, idea, notion, inkling, suspicion, belief, hunch, theory, sense; premonition, hint, presentiment, sense of foreboding, sensation, impression, opinion, view; instinct, consciousness, awareness: I have a feeling you're fooling. Do you ever have the feeling of being watched? 3 regard, sympathy, empathy, identification, compassion, tenderness, appreciation, concern, understanding, sensitivity, sensibility: He has a genuine feeling for animals. 4 ardour, warmth, passion, fervency, fervour, ardency, intensity, heat, sentiment, emotion, vehemence: She said she loved me with so much feeling that I thought she meant it. 5 feelings. emotions, sensitivity, sympathies, sensibilities, susceptibilities: She hurt my feelings. 6 feel, mood, atmosphere, climate, sense, air, ambience or ambiance: There is a feeling of impending doom about this place. --adj. 7 sentient, sensitive, tender, tender-hearted, compassionate, sympathetic: Their behaviour did the soldiers honour as feeling men.
FERMENT|12|v. 1 boil, effervesce, seethe, bubble, foam, froth, brew; rise, raise, work, leaven: A rebellion is fermenting in the northern counties. Adding yeast causes the bread to ferment. 2 excite, stir up, incite, instigate, agitate, foment, inflame, rouse, provoke: He helped to ferment a riot.
FERVENT|13|adj. 1 fervid, fiery, burning, glowing, hot, intense, passionate, impassioned, ardent, hotheaded, inflamed, fanatic(al), excited, frantic, frenzied: Only the most fervent acolytes were ordained as ministers of the faith. 2 eager, earnest, enthusiastic, zealous, animated, intense, heartfelt, emotional: It is my fervent desire to see you happy. 3 ecstatic, transported, rapturous, rapt, enrapt, enraptured, captivated: The fervent crowds cheered wildly when Caesar arrived.
FERVOUR|13|n. fervency, ardour, warmth, passion, vehemence, glow, intensity, zeal, eagerness, earnestness, enthusiasm, animation, gusto, ebullience, spirit, verve: She went about her studies with a fervour we had not seen before.
FILLING|5|n. filler, stuffing, padding, wadding; contents, components, Colloq innards: What kind of filling do you like in a pie?
FINALLY|11|adv. 1 at (long) last, lastly, eventually, in the end, ultimately, at length, when all is said and done, in the long run, at the end of the day, at the last moment: We finally arrived in port. 2 conclusively, once and for all, decisively, irrevocably, in fine, completely, inexorably, absolutely, definitively, definitely, for good, for ever, for all time: I didn't want to commit myself finally till I'd seen the plans.
FINANCE|12|n. 1 resource(s), banking, accounting, economics, money (management), business, commerce, (financial) affairs, investment: Bendick is the officer in charge of finance for the company. 2 finances. capital, money, cash, funds, resources, assets, holdings, wealth, wherewithal: Have you the finances needed to buy the house? --v. 3 fund, subvene, invest in, back, capitalize, underwrite, subsidize, pay for, Colloq US bankroll: The new enterprise is being financed entirely by small investors.
FINDING|8|n. 1 discovery, find: The findings from Pompeii are in the Museum of Portici. 2 judgement, decree, verdict, decision, determination, pronouncement, declaration, conclusion: The findings of the Law Lords are final.
FINESSE|8|n. 1 artfulness, subtlety, cunning, craftiness, cleverness, strategy, shrewdness, skill, style, dash, ÷lan, panache, knack, skilfulness, talent, adroitness, expertness, expertise, adeptness, proficiency, ability, facility: I admire the finesse with which she persuaded him to give the painting to the museum. 2 trick, artifice, stratagem, wile, ruse, scheme, machination, intrigue, device, expedient, manoeuvre, deception, deceit: He used every finesse in the book to get her to work for him. 3 tact, diplomacy, discretion, grace, taste, delicacy, polish, refinement, elegance: With infinite finesse, Lord Lacey suggested that the duchess might like to stay the night. --v. 4 manoeuvre, manipulate, bluff, trick, delude, deceive, fool, outwit, hoodwink, Colloq finagle, Slang con: She was finessed into making him heir to her fortune.
FINICKY|11|adj. 1 finical, fussy, fastidious, critical, difficult, meticulous, hard to please, (over-)delicate, (over-)dainty, (over-)particular, over-nice, over-precise, niminy-piminy, punctilious, (over-)scrupulous, Colloq pernickety or US also persnickety, choosy, nit-picking, picky: No one can work for him - he's too finicky. 2 fussy, elaborate, detailed, fine, delicate: Notice the tiny, finicky engraving on this watch-case.
FITNESS|8|n. 1 aptness, appropriateness, suitability, suitableness, competence, pertinence, seemliness; eligibility, adequacy, qualification(s): There is some doubt about Henryson's fitness as a leader. 2 health, healthiness, (good) (physical) condition, vigour, well-being, (good) shape, (fine) fettle, tone, wholesomeness, salubriousness or salubrity: Tony is a fanatic about physical fitness and exercises daily.
FITTING|5|adj. 1 fit, befitting, suitable, appropriate, meet, becoming, proper, comme il faut, seemly, apt, apropos, apposite, germane, relevant: Is it fitting to send flowers? It was a fitting end to the story. --n. 2 fittings. fitments, attachments, accessories, elements, pieces, parts, units, fixtures; appointments, extras, installations, furnishings, trappings, furniture, equipment, accoutrements, paraphernalia, trimmings: Gold-plated bathroom fittings are available at extra cost.
FLAMING|9|adj. obvious, conspicuous, blatant, flagrant, egregious, extravagant, Slang bloody, bleeding, blasted, damned, blooming: That flaming idiot was appointed to the Ministry of Defence!
FLANNEL|8|n. 1 flattery, humbug, nonsense, blarney, rubbish, prevarication, Colloq eyewash, hogwash, boloney, soft soap, weasel words, sweet talk, bull, crap, Brit waffle, cock, US bushwa; Taboo slang bullshit, horseshit, (load of) shit, Brit codswallop, bollocks or ballocks: Don't believe a thing Fordyce says - it's all flannel. --v. 2 flatter, hedge, mislead, pull the wool over (someone's) eyes, Colloq soft-soap, sweet-talk, Taboo slang bullshit, horseshit, shit: They aren't sincere - they're just flannelling you.
FLATTEN|8|v. 1 level or even (off or out); smooth (out), press or iron (out), roll: The children's noses were flattened against the window of the toy shop. You will have to flatten the lawn if you want to play croquet on it. 2 knock down or over, knock out, floor, prostrate: Menges flattened the champion in the first round. 3 raze, tear down, demolish, level: The bomb flattened every house in the area.
FLATTER|8|v. 1 butter up, play up to, compliment, praise, fawn (on or upon), toady to, truckle to, court, curry favour with, Colloq flannel, soft-soap, oil; Slang shine or suck up to, boot-lick, Taboo kiss (someone's) arse, brown-nose: Flattering the boss won't get you a salary increase. 2 enhance, complement, suit, show to advantage: That colour flatters her complexion. 3 cajole, wheedle, coax, inveigle, beguile, sweet-talk: He was flattered into signing that contract.
FLAVOUR|13|n. 1 taste, savour, tang, piquancy, zest; tastiness, savouriness; essence, extract, seasoning, flavouring, seasoning, spice; aroma, odour, scent; Rare sapor: Overcooking destroys the flavour of food. This sweet has a minty flavour. 2 character, spirit, nature, quality, property, mark, stamp, essence, characteristic, style, taste, feel, feeling, ambience or ambiance, sense, tinge, aroma, air, atmosphere, hint, suggestion, touch, soupúon: We all agreed that the new play has a Shavian flavour. --v. 3 season, spice: She flavours her teacakes with ginger.
FLECKED|9|adj. spotted, dappled, pied, (be)speckled, (be)sprinkled, dotted, marked, stippled, dusted, specked, spattered, freckled: His lank brown hair was flecked with grey.
FLICKER|8|v. 1 twinkle, blink, waver, glimmer, glint, sparkle, shimmer, flare, gutter: A slight draught made the candles flicker. 2 flap, flutter, quiver, twitter, fluctuate, oscillate, shake, tremble, vibrate: Dozens of tiny flags flickered in the wind. --n. 3 glimmer, glint, glimmering, sparkle, spark, twinkle, twinkling, gleam, flare, glare: With a dying flicker the torch went out. 4 hint, suggestion, trace, glimmer, vestige, scintilla, spark: I thought I detected a flicker of recognition when our eyes met.
FLIGHTY|10|adj. 1 fickle, frivolous, inconstant, capricious, fanciful, changeable, variable, mercurial, skittish, volatile, unstable, unsteady, giddy, wild: These flighty girls never stay in a job more than a month. 2 irresponsible, light-headed, rattle-brained, silly, hare-brained, dizzy, crazy, mad, reckless, thoughtless, Colloq nutty, screwy, dotty, dippy: It was flighty of Caroline to pour the brandy into the well.
FLOUNCE|12|n. 1 frill, furbelow, peplum, ruffle, ornament, valance, trimming: The dress has decorative flounces round the skirt. --v. 2 fling, toss, bounce, twist, strut, toss, parade, march, storm, stamp, US sashay: She flounced out of the room in high dudgeon.
FLOWERY|16|adj. florid, ornate, fancy, elaborate(d), decorated, ornamented, overwrought, embellished, rococo, baroque, arabesque, euphuistic, Gongoristic, Ossianic, grandiloquent, bombastic, inflated, pompous, affected, artificial, high-flown, showy: Many find his flowery style of writing difficult to stomach.
FLUENCY|15|n. articulateness, eloquence, control, command, ease, grace, effortlessness, facility, felicity, smoothness, polish, slickness, glibness, volubility: His extemporaneous speeches are marked by an enviable fluency.
FLUMMOX|15|v. confuse, baffle, perplex, bewilder, confound, throw into confusion, stymie, stump, puzzle, mystify, fox, deceive, hoodwink, nonplus: We were completely flummoxed by the licensing requirements.
FLUNKEY|17|n. 1 servant, retainer, lackey, footman, menial, minion, hireling, underling, subordinate, inferior; slave; Colloq dogsbody, Slang US and Canadian gofer: A company flunkey drove me to the airport. 2 toady, hanger-on, yes-man, jackal, doormat, stooge, lickspittle, sycophant, Colloq US and Canadian apple-polisher, Taboo brown-noser: He has a collection of flunkeys waiting about for hand-outs.
FLUTTER|8|v. 1 flap, flop, fluctuate, vacillate, wave, waver, oscillate: The paper streamers fluttered in the breeze. 2 flit, flicker, flitter, hover, dance; fuss: We shall never get done if you keep fluttering about. 3 tremble, shake, quiver, dither, jump, vibrate, twitch: She is fluttering with anticipation waiting for the postman. --n. 4 fluttering, flapping, flopping, fluctuation, fluctuating, vacillation, vacillating, wave, waving, oscillation, oscillating, trembling, quiver, quivering: The slightest flutter of her fan communicates volumes. 5 See fluster, 2.
FOOLISH|6|adj. 1 senseless, incautious, imprudent, impolitic, indiscreet, unwise, injudicious, ill-considered, ill-advised, misguided, short-sighted, impetuous, headlong, rash, brash, reckless, hasty, heedless, unwary, foolhardy, thoughtless, mindless: Standing under a tree in a thunderstorm is foolish. 2 nonsensical, stupid, asinine, inane, silly, fatuous, fatuitous, dim-witted, scatterbrained, hare-brained, crazy, mad, insane, demented, irrational, erratic, unstable, crack-brained, feather-brained, bird-brained, simple-minded, light-headed, muddle-headed, numskulled or numbskulled, addle-pated, rattle-brained, bemused, confused, feeble-minded, moronic, idiotic, imbecilic, halfwitted, dull-witted, slow-witted, witless, brainless, empty-headed, blockheaded, boneheaded, thickheaded, obtuse, stolid, Colloq dumb, balmy or Brit barmy, loony, nuts, nutty, batty, dopey or dopy, soft (in the head), dim, thick, dippy, dotty, dizzy, Brit potty, daft, Slang cuckoo, goofy, screwy, wacky: Tracy was foolish to believe him when he said he loved her. 3 preposterous, ridiculous, absurd, irrational, illogical, unreasonable, ludicrous, wild: They have some foolish idea about building a hotel in Antarctica.
FOOTING|5|n. 1 foundation, basis, base, ground(s): The events put our entire relationship on a new footing. 2 standing, status, level, condition, position, terms, state, rank: The two departments are on an equal footing as far as funding is concerned. 3 foothold, toe-hold; balance, stability: She lost her footing on the icy pavement and down she went.
FOREIGN|11|adj. 1 alien, imported, non-native; overseas, distant, tramontane, transalpine, transatlantic, transpacific: Duty is payable on foreign goods. We holiday in a different foreign country each year. 2 strange, outlandish, exotic, unfamiliar, peculiar, odd, curious: She regards anything except beans and toast as foreign food. 3 unknown, unfamiliar, strange, inappropriate, unrelated, unconnected, unassimilable, remote, extrinsic, extraneous: Their philosophy is completely foreign to my way of thinking.
FORESEE|8|v. presage, foretell, envisage, picture, forecast, predict, prophesy, augur, US envision: I don't foresee any problems.
FOREVER|13|adv. 1 forever, always, for good, ever, (for) evermore, forevermore, eternally, everlastingly, for ever and a day, undyingly, for eternity, till doomsday, till the end of time, Colloq till the cows come home, till hell freezes over: They swore to be true for ever. 2 constantly, continually, continuously, all the time, unceasingly, incessantly, without cease or surcease, endlessly, consistently, persistently, interminably, perpetually: She was forever watching soap operas on the telly.
FORGERY|14|n. 1 counterfeiting, falsification, fraud, fraudulence: He was sent to prison for ten years for forgery. 2 counterfeit, fake, sham, imitation, Colloq phoney or US also phony: The police have found three forgeries of Dali paintings.
FORGIVE|14|v. 1 pardon, excuse, allow, make allowance(s) for, indulge, condone, vindicate; overlook, ignore, disregard, pay no attention to, pass over, US slough over: Please forgive my curiosity, but where did you get that hat? 2 clear, acquit, absolve, exculpate, exonerate; spare; Colloq let off: Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. 3 cancel, waive, abolish, void, nullify, erase, delete; Colloq let off (the hook): Her dream was to awake one day and find all her debts forgiven.
FORLORN|10|adj. 1 miserable, wretched, desolate, woebegone, lost, pitiable, pitiful, pathetic, woeful, cheerless, joyless, unhappy, depressed, sad, desolate, disconsolate, gloomy, lugubrious, glum, despondent, dismal, dejected, dispirited, low-spirited, comfortless, down, melancholy, dolorous, sorrowful, mournful, inconsolable: She looked so fragile and forlorn as she struggled to hold back her tears. 2 abandoned, forsaken, deserted, neglected, shunned, outcast, alone, lonely, lonesome, friendless, bereft: We came upon a forlorn little village.
FORMULA|12|n. recipe, rubric, formulary; rule(s), prescription, directions, instructions, blueprint, method, technique, means, way, pattern, procedure, modus operandi, Colloq US MO: Ali Baba uttered the formula, 'Open sesame!', and the rock opened. Alchemists sought to discover a formula for making gold from lead.
FORTIFY|16|v. 1 strengthen, reinforce, shore up, buttress, brace, bolster, secure: Steel plates were used to fortify the walls. 2 cheer, encourage, hearten, buoy, invigorate, energize, embolden, reassure, brace: Her enthusiasm fortified him to face what was coming. 3 supplement, enhance, enrich, boost, augment: The drink was fortified by the addition of whisky.
FORWARD|14|adj. 1 advance, leading, foremost, front, head, first: The forward contingents of the army moved into the town. 2 bold, pert, impudent, brash, insolent, impertinent, disrespectful, brazen, audacious, rash, unashamed, unabashed, saucy, flippant, presumptuous, cheeky, Colloq flip, fresh, pushy: It was a bit forward of you to call the chairman by his nickname. 3 (well-)advanced, (well-)developed, progressive, precocious, forward-looking: She was quite a forward girl at fifteen. --adv. 4 forwards, ahead, onward, along; clockwise, deasil: I moved forward to the head of the queue. Set the clock forward an hour tonight. 5 up, out, forth, to the fore, into consideration, into view, into the open, to the surface, on to the table: Cooper brought forward an interesting proposal. --v. 6 advance, further, promote, back, foster, support, aid, assist, help; patronize, encourage, nourish, nurse along: He did his best to forward her career. 7 dispatch or despatch, send, ship, deliver, transmit, express, post, mail, consign, remit; send on: The shipment will be forwarded as soon as payment is received. The post office will forward mail to my new address. 8 speed (up), accelerate, advance, hasten, expedite, hurry, quicken, step up: This mixture is said to forward the flowering of plants.
FOUNDER|11|n. originator, creator, progenitor, author, framer, father, architect, designer, builder, initiator, establisher, institutor: Today we honour the founder of this great university.
FRANTIC|12|adj. frenzied, excited, frenetic, nervous, overwrought, excitable, wrought up, distracted, distraught, beside oneself, hysterical, wild, berserk, mad, running amok; upset, agitated, perturbed, at one's wit's end, disconcerted, confused; hectic; Colloq in a state, in a tizzy, up the wall, in a dither, out of one's mind, Chiefly US and Canadian discombobulated: They are frantic because they haven't heard from Edmund in a week.
FRAUGHT|14|adj. 1 Usually, fraught with. filled or charged or packed with, loaded with, teeming or replete or overflowing with, oversupplied with, abounding or abundant in, attended or accompanied by: The scene was fraught with emotion. 2 tense, taut, stressful, trying, anxious, distressing, distressful, upsetting, nerve-racking or nerve-wracking, fretful, strained, traumatic: Relations between the two countries became even more fraught following the incident.
FREEDOM|11|n. 1 liberty, independence, self-government, self-determination, self-direction, autonomy: Democracy is based on the freedom of the individual. 2 release, deliverance, liberation, emancipation, manumission: Will these people ever get their freedom? 3 exemption, immunity, deliverance, liberation, relief: All citizens should enjoy freedom from want. 4 range, latitude, scope, play, deregulation, non-interference, discretion, margin, free hand, discretion; facility, ease, licence, permission, right, privilege, authority, authorization, power, carte blanche: He must have the freedom to make decisions. I have the freedom to do as I wish. 5 free time, leisure, spare time: I like a lot of freedom to do things in my own time. 6 candour, honesty, openness, frankness, candidness, unrestraint, unconstraint, naturalness: Freedom of speech is practised here. 7 boldness, overfamiliarity, audacity, audaciousness, forwardness, brazenness, brass, impertinence, impudence, disrespect, arrogance, presumption, presumptuousness, nerve, gall: Where does she get the freedom to talk to you that way?
FRESHEN|8|v. 1 strengthen, increase, blow harder: The wind began to freshen as we sailed past the headland. 2 Sometimes, freshen up. invigorate, revive, refresh, enliven, (re)vitalize, stimulate, titivate, rouse, liven up: I'll just freshen up before dinner. Freshen these flowers by changing the water. 3 ventilate, air out, deodorize, purify: We freshen the rooms by opening all the windows. 4 strengthen, spike, lace, fortify: May I freshen your drink?
FRETFUL|13|adj. irritable, vexed, ill-tempered, bad-tempered, peevish, edgy, cross, petulant, testy, touchy, tetchy, splenetic, irascible, choleric, crabby, fractious, short-tempered, grumpy, sulky, moody, fault-finding, carping, querulous, whining, complaining, captious, ill-natured, disagreeable, impatient, snappish, waspish, short, abrupt, curt, US and Canadian cranky: Are you always so fretful before breakfast?
FRITTER|8|v. fritter away. squander, waste, idle away, misspend, dissipate: Stop frittering away your time watching television. She frittered away every penny of her inheritance.
FUNERAL|10|n. obsequies, exequies; burial, interment, sepulture, entombment, inhumation; cremation: It is fitting to wear black when attending a funeral.
FURIOUS|7|adj. 1 angry, enraged, raging, infuriated, fuming, incensed, irate, maddened, mad, boiling, wrathful, provoked, beside oneself, up in arms, in high dudgeon, on the warpath, foaming at the mouth, Literary wroth, Colloq steaming, livid, in a tizzy, Slang up the wall, pissed off, browned off, Brit cheesed off: Mark was furious at Betty for leaving without him. 2 fierce, wild, violent, savage, intense, unrestrained, frantic, frenzied: A few made a furious attempt to jump off the burning ship.
FURNISH|8|v. 1 supply, provide, afford, equip, outfit, fit (out or up), rig (out or up), provision, give, stock up, Colloq Brit kit out or up: The trading post furnished what we needed for a month in the wilderness. Can you furnish me with a blanket? 2 decorate, equip: She received a commission to furnish a ten-room house.
FURTHER|8|adj. 1 more, additional, another, other, new, supplemental, supplementary, accessory, auxiliary, extra, spare, fresh: Further investment by our group is out of the question. 2 farther, more distant or remote: Some day, we may travel to the further reaches of the galaxy. --adv. 3 furthermore, besides, moreover, too, also, additionally, in addition, over and above, beyond, above, what is more, to boot, yet, then (again), again: She told him he was rude and, further, ugly as well. 4 farther, at or to a greater distance or depth: She has looked into the matter much further than I. --v. 5 advance, promote, favour, push or urge onward(s) or forward(s), forward, foster, back, patronize, support, help, assist, aid: What can I do to further your efforts?
FURTIVE|13|adj. 1 secret, private, secretive, clandestine, surreptitious, stealthy, underhand(ed), covert, hidden, conspiratorial, skulking, deceitful, under the table, under the counter, hugger-mugger, Colloq sneaky: She gave me a furtive look to let me know she was on to me. 2 sly, foxy, cunning, crafty, wily, shifty, untrustworthy, Colloq sneaky: His furtive manoeuvres mark him as one not to be trusted.
GAINFUL|11|adj. advantageous, profitable, productive, fruitful, beneficial, useful, valuable, worthwhile, rewarding, remunerative, lucrative, moneymaking: Your father thinks it about time you sought gainful employment.
GALLANT|6|adj. 1 brave, courageous, bold, valiant, daring, dauntless, intrepid, plucky, fearless, valorous, unafraid, undaunted, manly, manful, plucky, mettlesome, stout-hearted, lion-hearted, heroic, dashing, (high-)spirited: Three gallant soldiers held off the enemy attack. 2 chivalrous, courtly, courteous, polite, attentive, gentlemanly, noble, gracious, considerate, thoughtful, well-bred, mannerly: What man is so gallant today as to give up his seat on a bus to a lady? 3 dignified, elegant, imposing, grand, noble, glorious, fine, splendid, majestic, stately, magnificent: Overwhelmed by four enemy men o' war, the gallant ship sank beneath the waves. --n. 4 champion, hero, knight, cavalier, paladin: Which gallant wears her scarf on his sleeve in today's jousts? 5 lover, Romeo, sweetheart, beloved, paramour, boyfriend, beau, escort, suitor, admirer, Literary swain: In those days, gallants continually sent their ladies gifts and flowers.
GALLOWS|9|n. gibbet: Another name for gallows was 'Tyburn tree', after that at Tyburn, in London.
GARBAGE|11|n. rubbish, refuse, waste, muck, offal, sweepings, swill, filth, slops, dross, scraps, junk, litter, debris, detritus, Chiefly US and Canadian trash, Slang crap: The garbage in the river is a health hazard.
GARLAND|9|n. 1 wreath, festoon, crown, chaplet, circlet: Diana crowned the sleeping Endymion with a garland of flowers. --v. 2 wreathe, festoon, crown, decorate, coil, spiral, encircle, ring, circle: The columns were all garlanded with brightly coloured paper decorations.
GENTEEL|6|adj. 1 over-polite, unnatural, pretentious, affected, mannered, putting on airs, pompous, overdone, Colloq posh, la-di-da or lah-di-dah or la-de-da, phoney or US also phony, Brit county: The Brumfits are a bit too genteel for my taste. 2 courtly, polite, civil, well-mannered, well-bred, courteous, mannerly, gracious, proper, respectable, decorous, ladylike, gentlemanly, chivalrous, cavalier, debonair, suave, patrician, high-class, upper-class, aristocratic, thoroughbred, blue-blooded, noble, royal, Colloq classy, tony, upper crust, US silk-stocking: His son married a woman from an ancient, genteel house. 3 refined, polished, sophisticated, debonair, suave, urbane, cosmopolitan, cultivated, cultured, elegant, Colloq ritzy: Why small feet are considered genteel, I cannot say.
GENUINE|8|adj. 1 authentic, real, bona fide, veritable, legitimate, true, original, proper, not counterfeit or fake; pukka or pucka: Is that a genuine diamond? I know his feelings for her are genuine. Armstrong is a genuine leader of men. 2 candid, frank, open, sincere, earnest, honest, unfeigned: His art is much more genuine than the pretentious output of his contemporaries.
GESTURE|8|n. 1 movement, motion, gesticulation, signal, indication, action, Colloq US high sign: She made a gesture of dismissal. 2 formality, move; gambit, ploy; token, indication, symbol: Sending her flowers was a friendly gesture. Their burning the flag was a gesture of defiance. --v. 3 motion, gesticulate, signal, sign, indicate, Colloq US give (someone) the high sign: He gestured for me to step forward.
GETAWAY|14|n. escape, flight, retreat: The prisoners made their getaway in a van. Lady Fenella was so boring I couldn't wait to make my getaway.
GHASTLY|14|adj. 1 dreadful, awful, terrible, terrifying, frightful, hideous, horrible, horrendous, horrid, horrifying, grim, grisly, loathsome, gruesome, ugly, repellent, repulsive, shocking, appalling, Colloq gross, scary: He was involved in a ghastly accident. 2 grim, cadaverous, haggard, ashen, wan, pale, pallid, pasty(-faced), drawn, livid, ghostly, spectral, macabre: She looked ghastly after the surgery. 3 awful, bad, terrible, ill, ailing, sick: We felt ghastly after eating the undercooked chicken.
GHOSTLY|14|adj. 1 spectral, ghost-like, wraithlike, phantasmal, phantom, eerie, unreal, unnatural, supernatural, preternatural, unearthly, sinister, strange, uncanny, weird, Colloq spooky, scary, creepy: I heard a ghostly voice calling my name. 2 See ghastly, 2, above.
GIMMICK|4|n. 1 device, strategy, stratagem, ploy, trick, ruse, wile, subterfuge, manoeuvre, artifice, deception, trap, snare, US hook, Colloq dodge: We need some sort of gimmick to attract buyers. 2 device, contrivance, gadget, invention, Colloq contraption, widget, thingumbob or thingumabob or thingamabob, thingumajig or thingamajig or thingummy, whatchamacallit, what's-its-name, Brit doodah, US doohickey, doodad, hickey, whosis, whatsis, dingus, Rube Goldberg (invention), Chiefly US and Canadian gismo or gizmo: He uses some kind of gimmick to break into cars.
GLAMOUR|10|n. allure, fascination, charm, attractiveness, brilliance, glitter, attraction, magnetism, charisma, captivation, desirability, appeal, enchantment, bewitchment, witchcraft, sorcery, magic: Who today can match the glamour of the movie stars of the '30s?
GLEEFUL|9|adj. happy, merry, joyful, delighted, exuberant, ecstatic, cheerful, in high or good spirits, exhilarated, elated, exultant, rapturous, overjoyed, pleased, jubilant, joyous, jovial, jolly, gay, mirthful: He wrote a gleeful report of the chairman's conviction for insider trading.
GLORIFY|14|v. 1 elevate, exalt, raise (up), upgrade, promote, advance, boost, enhance, dignify, ennoble, immortalize: Winning first prize glorified his reputation considerably. In her book she glorifies motherhood. These men are glorified by their heroism. 2 canonize, deify, idolize, revere, venerate, sanctify, worship, pay tribute or homage to, ennoble, idealize, apotheosize, eulogize, panegyrize, adore, honour, look up to, celebrate, extol, praise, laud, commend, hail, lionize, applaud, acclaim: The world glorified Lindbergh for the first solo flight across the Atlantic.
GLOWING|8|adj. 1 aglow, incandescent, burning, lambent, luminous, candent; smouldering: I stirred the glowing embers. 2 rich, warm, vibrant, bright, brilliant: Banners in glowing colours enlivened the hall. He is in glowing health. 3 laudatory, complimentary, enthusiastic, eulogistic, rhapsodic, favourable, encomiastic, panegyrical: The critics described her performance in glowing terms.
GLUTTON|6|n. trencherman, gormandizer, gourmand or gormand, overeater, hog, pig, Grangousier, Colloq greedy-guts, Slang Brit gannet, US chowhound: Like the glutton that he is, he asked for more after eating an enormous meal.
GOAHEAD|12|n. 1 permission, approval, leave, authorization, sanction, Colloq say-so, okay or OK, green light, US the nod: I have the go-ahead to proceed with the project. --adj. 2 ambitious, enterprising, progressive, forward-looking, resourceful: The directors, all under thirty, make it a real go-ahead company.
GODLESS|7|adj. 1 wicked, evil, iniquitous, sinful, unrighteous, unholy, hellish; impious, blasphemous, profane, sacrilegious, ungodly: The prison was a godless place, where one was murdered for a crust of bread. 2 atheistic, nullifidian, agnostic, unbelieving, sceptical: In theory, communism is a godless ideology.
GODLIKE|13|adj. 1 divine, godly, sacred, holy, saintly, angelic, seraphic, blest, blessed, sainted: The savages thought her a goddess and treated her with godlike reverence. 2 heavenly, celestial, blissful, rapturous, ecstatic, beatific, ethereal: For a decade, she lived a godlike existence among the savages.
GODSEND|10|n. gift, blessing, benediction, boon, windfall, bonanza, stroke of (good) fortune, piece or bit of (good) luck: The Red Cross parcels were a godsend to the prisoners of war.
GOODBYE|12|interjection. Farewell!, Hawaiian Aloha!; Italian Arrivederci!, Ciao!; German Auf Wiedersehen!; French Au revoir!, Adieu!; Japanese Sayonara!; Spanish ÎAdios!, ÎHasta la vista!, ÎHasta luego!; Latin Vale!; Colloq Bye! or 'Bye!, Bye-bye!, Toodle-oo!, So long!, Brit Ta-ta!, Cheers!, cheerio, Old-fashioned Pip! Pip!, US See you later ( alligator)!: We said our goodbyes and went on our way.
GRADUAL|9|adj. easy, gentle, even, moderate, slow, piecemeal, inchmeal, regular, steady: There is a gradual slope down to the garden wall. The acceleration was gradual. He became aware of a gradual erosion of his authority.
GRATIFY|14|v. please, satisfy, fulfil, delight, compensate, recompense, reward, requite, cheer, gladden, favour: Albert would be gratified to see the good coming from his charitable bequests.
GRATING|5|adj. 1 jarring, strident, raucous, harsh, discordant, dissonant, unharmonious, offensive, irritating, irksome, annoying, vexatious, galling: I find the noise of chalk squeaking on the blackboard very grating. 2 grinding, gritty, squeaky, jangling, screeching, creaking, shrill, piercing, squawking, croaking, rasping: The grating noise you hear is my fridge motor. --n. 3 grate, grid, reticle or reticule, grille, lattice, trellis, screen, network, reticulation: When a beam of light is directed through the fine grating, odd patterns are formed.
GRAVITY|14|n. 1 gravitation; attraction: After middle age, the body obeys the laws of gravity but not of mutual attraction. 2 seriousness, acuteness, immediacy, importance, significance, weight, magnitude, severity, urgency, exigency, momentousness, weightiness: When I saw mother's expression I realized the gravity of the situation. 3 solemnity, dignity, sombreness, staidness, sedateness, sobriety, gravitas, soberness, reserve; gloominess, grimness: The ceremony was conducted with suitable gravity.
HABITAT|12|n. abode, home, haunt, domain, range, territory, bailiwick, realm, terrain, element, environment, surroundings, Colloq stamping-ground: The winter habitat of the monarch butterfly is in northern Mexico. Curtis doesn't function well outside his natural habitat.
HAGGARD|9|adj. gaunt, drawn, wasted, emaciated, hollow-eyed, hollow-cheeked, scrawny, scraggy, ghastly, cadaverous, run-down, wearied, weary, careworn, spent, played out, exhausted, toil-worn, worn, shrunken, withered: She looked haggard, as if she hadn't slept for a week.
HALTING|7|adj. hesitant, hesitating, wavering, shifting, uneven, faltering, stumbling, faulty, unsteady, awkward, stammering, stuttering: He told her in halting English that there was no news of her friend.
HANDFUL|14|n. 1 few, couple, sprinkling, small number; fistful: Only a handful of restaurants are open that late. He gave the beggar a handful of change. 2 (behaviour or disciplinary) problem, bother, mischief-maker, troublemaker, nuisance: Timothy was a real handful when he was five.
HANDILY|14|adv. 1 readily, easily, effortlessly, without strain, comfortably, with both hands tied (behind one's back): Donald handily won the first prize in the poetry competition. 2 skilfully, capably, deftly, cleverly, dexterously, adroitly, expertly, proficiently, masterfully: I could never do that intricate work as handily as she.
HANGMAN|13|n. executioner, Archaic Brit Jack Ketch: The hangman, a black hood concealing his identity, slipped the noose over the prisoner's head.
HAPPILY|11|adv. 1 fortunately, luckily, propitiously, providentially, opportunely: Happily, she made a full recovery and was soon back at work. 2 joyfully, joyously, delightedly, gleefully, cheerily, cheerfully, gaily, merrily, blithely; enthusiastically, heartily: She waved happily as they drove off. 3 gladly, with pleasure, agreeably, contentedly, willingly, peaceably: And they both lived happily ever after.
HARBOUR|12|n. 1 port, (safe) haven, anchorage, mooring: We sailed into the harbour just as the storm broke. --v. 2 shelter, keep safe, protect, shield, guard, safeguard, conceal, hide: They were found guilty of harbouring a known fugitive. 3 cherish, foster, nurture, nurse, keep, retain, maintain, hold, cling to: She harbours a grudge against whoever set the fire.
HARMFUL|15|adj. dangerous, pernicious, deleterious, destructive, damaging, bad, detrimental, injurious; unhealthy, noxious, baleful, toxic, poisonous, venomous, Archaic baneful: Do you really think that Barbara has had a harmful influence on him? That substance can be harmful if swallowed.
HARMONY|15|n. 1 agreement, accord, concord, compatibility, rapport, unanimity, unity: The purpose is to promote harmony among the warring factions. 2 consonance, congruity, balance, orderliness, closeness, togetherness, consistency, fitness, parallelism: A sense of harmony can be felt among the European nations. 3 melodiousness, euphony, tunefulness: Their voices are in perfect harmony.
HAUGHTY|17|adj. arrogant, proud, superior, self-important, smug, self-satisfied, complacent, pretentious, conceited, egotistical, snobbish, overbearing, lofty, presumptuous, overweening, patronizing, supercilious, vain, condescending, contemptuous, belittling, derisive, disdainful, scornful, Colloq highfalutin or hifalutin, hoity-toity, stuck-up, swell-headed or swelled-headed or swollen-headed, high and mighty, on (his or her) high horse, snooty, la-di-da or lah-di-dah or la-de-da, Slang snotty, uppish, uppity: She's too haughty to have made any friends here.
HEADWAY|17|n. 1 progress, forward motion, improvement: Headway against that current was almost impossible. Any headway to report? 2 make headway. advance, progress, move forward, go, gain (ground), get or go ahead, proceed, get going: I tried to persuade her but haven't made much headway.
HEALTHY|11|adj. 1 well, fit, trim, in good or fine fettle or shape, in good health, robust, hale (and hearty), sturdy, strong, vigorous, thriving, flourishing, Colloq in the pink: How come he is so healthy if he smokes? 2 wholesome, healthful, salubrious, salutary, beneficial, nourishing, nutritious, tonic, bracing: The answer lies in eating healthy food and living in a healthy climate.
HEATHEN|8|n. 1 unbeliever, infidel, pagan, idolater or idolatress, polytheist, atheist, nullifidian, sceptic, agnostic, heretic: One often finds more mercy in a heathen than in a brother Christian. --adj. 2 infidel, pagan, atheist(ic), godless, nullifidian, sceptic(al), doubting, agnostic, heretical, irreligious: After the missionaries left, the tribe returned to their heathen practices. 3 savage, barbarian, barbaric, uncivilized, primitive, unenlightened, uncultured, Philistine; polytheistic, pantheistic: Each of these tribesmen carries with him a tiny sculptured image of the heathen god.
HELPFUL|15|adj. useful, serviceable, practical, pragmatic, utilitarian, beneficial, valuable, profitable, advantageous, constructive, productive; supportive, reassuring, sympathetic, considerate, caring, accommodating, kind, considerate, cooperative, neighbourly, friendly, benevolent: A reference book might be helpful in answering that question. Mrs Carlyle gave me such helpful advice.
HELPING|9|n. serving, portion, ration, plateful, Brit help, Colloq dollop: He has already asked for a third helping of potatoes.
HENPECK|10|v. nag, harass, hector, pester, torment, bully, carp, cavil: She henpecked him so much that he finally left her.
HEROINE|10|n. (female) lead, leading actress or lady, prima donna or ballerina, premiëre danseuse, diva: The heroine was played by Mme Kropeczka.
HIDEOUS|8|adj. 1 grotesque, ugly, repulsive, revolting, repellent, monstrous, beastly, gorgonian, unsightly, ghastly, disgusting, grisly, nauseating, nauseous, sickening, gruesome: Suddenly, a hideous face appeared at the kitchen window. 2 foul, abhorrent, heinous, horrifying, appalling, outrageous, abominable, vile, shocking, loathsome, contemptible, hateful, odious, atrocious, horrific, beastly, damnable, execrable: Two hideous crimes were committed here last night.
HISTORY|13|n. 1 account, story, record, description, depiction, portrayal, representation, telling, retelling, recital, narration, narrative, relation, retailing: Washington Irving's Knickerbocker's History of New York begins with the creation of the world. 2 news, summary, recapitulation, report, intelligence, information: The history of these events is recounted in a book by Robinson. 3 past, background, life; experiences, adventures, story, biography: This woman appears to have had a rather curious history. The history of your years in Polynesia would make an interesting book. 4 record, experience, information, biography, CV or curriculum vitae, US r÷sum÷: Your entire work history should be included in your application. 5 chronicle, annals, record, account: The history of Parliamentary debate can be traced through Hansard. 6 ancient history, the past, yesterday, the (good old) days, days of yore, olden days, yesteryear, antiquity: What can history tell us about the future? 7 dead letter, yesterday's news, old hat: Any animosity I might have felt towards him is now history.
HOGGISH|6|adj. piggish, greedy, avaricious, insatiable, gluttonous, voracious, edacious, acquisitive, possessive, self-seeking, selfish: Don't be so hoggish; share the cake with the others.
HOLIDAY|14|n. 1 time off, break, recess, respite, leave (of absence), furlough, sabbatical, Chiefly US vacation: We spent our holiday in Ibiza this year. 2 festival, feast, celebration, féte or fete; gala, fair, red-letter day, event: Where are you going over the Christmas holiday?
HONESTY|13|n. 1 trustworthiness, uprightness, rectitude, probity, integrity, virtue, virtuousness, honour: As he will deal with large amounts of money, his honesty cannot be in question. 2 truthfulness, veracity, candour, openness, frankness, forthrightness, directness, straightforwardness, outspokenness, sincerity, guilelessness, ingenuousness, bluntness: You might not like what he says, but you have to admire his honesty. 3 fairness, equity, equitableness, even-handedness, objectivity, impartiality, disinterestedness, justness, justice: We rely on the honesty of judges in meting out punishment to convicted felons.
HOODLUM|11|n. gangster, thug, racketeer, mobster, desperado, terrorist, ruffian, tough, rowdy, knave, Colloq hooligan, baddy, crook, US plug-ugly, Slang goon, Brit yob, yobbo, US mug, bad actor, roughneck, hood, gunsel, hit man, torpedo, French apache, Australian larrikin: He has a few hoodlums on the payroll who do the dirty work.
HOPEFUL|15|adj. 1 expectant, anticipating, optimistic, sanguine, confident, assured: We are hopeful of victory in the forthcoming election. 2 promising, bright, rosy, reassuring, heartening, encouraging, auspicious, propitious, inspiriting: Today was a disaster, but tomorrow looks more hopeful.
HORIZON|19|n. view, purview, range, scope, vista, compass, perspective, prospect, ken, field of vision, limit(s): This is something that lies beyond the horizon of present-day knowledge.
HORRIFY|14|v. 1 terrify, frighten, scare, alarm, intimidate, panic, scare or frighten to death, petrify, Colloq scare or frighten the living daylights out of, scare stiff, make (someone's) hair stand on end, make (someone's or the) blood run cold, curl (someone's) hair, scare the pants off: I was horrified to see the attack dogs racing towards me. 2 shock, startle, upset, put off, outrage, dismay, appal, distress, discountenance, disconcert: I was horrified to hear that you weren't coming to my party.
HOUSING|4|n. 1 homes, houses, lodging(s), quarters, accommodation, habitation, dwelling; shelter, protection: The Council is trying to provide housing for the elderly. 2 case, casing, cover, covering, enclosure, container, box, shield: We keep the sensitive equipment in a dust-proof housing.
HOWEVER|16|adv. 1 notwithstanding, regardless, nevertheless, nonetheless, despite (that), in spite of (that), still, but, though, yet, even so, be that as it may, come what may, no matter what; at any rate, anyway, anyhow, on the other hand, in all events, in any event, in any case, after all: He insisted the council should give their approval; however, that is not their responsibility. I was ready to move to Cardiff; she didn't offer me the job, however. 2 to whatever manner or extent or degree, howsoever, no matter how, in any way or manner or respect, anyhow, how, in whatever way or manner: However you view it, he is still the boss. Spend the money however you see fit. --conj. 3 how, how on earth, how in the world, in what way or manner: However do you manage with only three to help, you poor thing? 4 no matter how, regardless how, putting or setting aside how, notwithstanding how: However much she earns, she is always short of money.
HULKING|11|adj. clumsy, awkward, ungainly, lubberly, oafish, loutish; unwieldy, cumbersome, bulky, ponderous, massive, ungraceful, inelegant: Their great hulking son could no longer fit into his clothes. That hulking monolith of an office building dominates the entire neighbourhood.
HUMDRUM|15|adj. dull, boring, tedious, tiresome, wearisome, monotonous, unvaried, unvarying, routine, undiversified, unchanging, repetitious, uneventful, unexciting, uninteresting, prosaic, mundane, ordinary, commonplace, common, banal, dry, insipid, jejune: They saw no way of escaping from their humdrum lives.
HURRIED|9|adj. 1 hasty, feverish, frantic, hectic, breakneck, frenetic, impetuous, rushed, precipitate, swift, quick, speedy; brief, short: We ate a hurried lunch before leaving to catch the train. 2 superficial, cursory, offhand, perfunctory, slapdash: Airport security guards made only a hurried examination of the hand luggage.
HURTFUL|13|adj. 1 harmful, injurious, detrimental, pernicious, prejudicial, disadvantageous, damaging, deleterious, destructive, noisome, noxious, baneful, mischievous: Efficient government is advantageous to many and hurtful to none. 2 nasty, cruel, cutting, malicious, mean, unkind, wounding, spiteful: He made some hurtful accusations about the librarian's efficiency.
HUSBAND|13|n. 1 mate, spouse, groom, bridegroom, partner, Colloq old man, hubby: My husband and I take turns cleaning the house. --v. 2 save, keep, retain, hoard, conserve, preserve, store; budget, economize (on), manage: If we husband our resources, we shall have enough for a rainy day.
IDEALLY|9|adv. 1 under or in the best of circumstances, at best, in a perfect world, all things being equal: Ideally, February is the time to holiday in the Caribbean. 2 theoretically, in theory, in principle: Ideally, people ought to have money before they are too old to enjoy it. 3 perfectly: John and Marsha are ideally suited to each other.
IDOLIZE|17|v. adore, admire, adulate, worship, revere, reverence, venerate, put on a pedestal, exalt, glorify, deify, lionize, look up to, apotheosize: She had always idolized her father, and his death came as a terrible blow to her.
IDYLLIC|11|adj. Arcadian, paradisaic(al) or paradisiac(al), heavenly, Edenic, halcyon, ideal, idealized, pastoral, rustic, bucolic, picturesque, charming, unspoilt or unspoiled, peaceful, pacific: He returned to the island to live out his life in idyllic repose.
ILLEGAL|6|adj. unlawful, illegitimate, criminal, felonious, outlawed, prohibited, interdicted, forbidden, proscribed, wrongful, unauthorized, verboten, illicit, Law actionable: The bookkeeper was prosecuted for illegal appropriation of funds.
ILLICIT|3|adj. 1 See illegal. 2 wrong, improper, underhand(ed), secret, furtive, clandestine, back-door, Colloq US sneaky: They grew rich on the proceeds of illicit liquor.
ILLNESS|3|n. sickness, disease, disorder, affliction, ailment, malady, complaint, infirmity, disability, indisposition, affection, Colloq bug: His illness is serious but not contagious.
ILLWILL|6|n. dislike, animosity, hatred, hate, loathing, abhorrence, detestation, malevolence, malice, hostility, enmity, animus, antipathy, aversion, rancour, acrimony, spite, venom, vitriol, acerbity: I bear her no ill will for the way she treated me. She incurred his ill will by refusing him access to the children.
IMAGERY|13|n. figurativeness, allusion, symbolism: Constance's poems are filled with ornate imagery.
IMAGINE|10|v. 1 think of, contemplate, picture, envisage, consider, ponder, meditate on, envision, visualize, conceive (of), conceptualize, create, think up, concoct, devise, Colloq dream up, cook up: I cannot imagine what you are referring to. Imagine, if you can, a world without conflict. 2 suppose, guess, conjecture, assume, presume, take it, infer, take (it) for granted, take it as given, think, fancy, believe, gather, surmise, suspect, judge, deem: I imagine that you won't want a drink if you are driving. You are imagining things if you think she is trying to undermine your authority.
IMITATE|9|v. 1 mimic, copy, ape, parrot, monkey, emulate, impersonate, do an impression of; echo, simulate: Cruikshank was imitating the boss, who walked in at that very moment. His style imitates that of Carlyle. 2 copy, mimic, mock, parody, satirize, burlesque, caricature, travesty, Colloq spoof, take off, Brit send up: In Hudibras, Samuel Butler imitated the style of the heroic epic.
IMMENSE|5|adj. enormous, gigantic, extensive, vast, huge, massive, voluminous, tremendous, staggering, stupendous, mammoth, colossal, giant, titanic, Cyclopean, jumbo, elephantine, Brobdingnagian, Slang US humongous: Our exit from the cave was blocked by an immense boulder.
IMMERSE|5|v. 1 plunge, sink, submerge, dip, dunk, duck, inundate: Immerse the device in the water before switching it on. 2 plunge, sink, submerge, bury, absorb, engross, engage, occupy, involve: I immersed myself in my work and never noticed the time.
IMMORAL|5|adj. 1 corrupt, bad, wicked, evil, iniquitous, sinful, impure, unethical, unprincipled, abandoned, base, wrong, vile, depraved, dissolute, degenerate, reprobate, unregenerate, nefarious, flagitious, villainous, treacherous, unscrupulous, dishonest: Is it immoral to avoid paying one's taxes? 2 immodest, debauched, indecent, wanton, libertine, lecherous, lustful, libidinous, carnal, concupiscent, salacious, licentious, lascivious, lewd, obscene, pornographic, dirty, smutty, filthy: He was convicted for living off immoral earnings.
IMPASSE|9|n. deadlock, dead end, stalemate, stand-off, block, blockage, Colloq blind alley: Negotiations reached an impasse and the meeting broke up.
IMPEACH|9|v. 1 charge, accuse, arraign, indict, incriminate, implicate, inculpate, blame, censure: They were impeached for crimes against the state. 2 (call into) question, challenge, attack, disparage, discredit, impugn, deprecate, belittle, asperse, cast aspersions on, declaim, slander, malign, vilify: My daughter's character had been impeached by the witness.
IMPIOUS|8|adj. irreligious, irreverent, ungodly, sacrilegious, blasphemous, profane, unholy, wicked, sinful, iniquitous: The priest said that he would be punished for his impious remarks.
IMPRESS|9|v. 1 affect, touch, move, reach, stir, strike, sway, influence, persuade, Colloq grab, get under one's skin: She was genuinely impressed by his sincerity. 2 print, imprint, stamp, mark, engrave, emboss: Before the bowl was placed in the kiln, the potter's seal was impressed in its underside. 3 Often, impress on or upon. stress, emphasize, urge, bring home (to): They tried to impress on him the gravity of the situation.
IMPROVE|14|v. 1 better, ameliorate, upgrade, uplift, amend, enhance, fix up, reform, redeem, rehabilitate, redress, repair, correct, rectify, put or set right, emend; modernize, update, refurbish, recondition, renovate, repair, overhaul, remodel: We must improve procedures for dealing with small claims. The landlord refuses to spend any money to improve the property. 2 develop, increase, advance, promote, further, benefit; look up, recover, pick up, Colloq give a new lease of or US on life, take a turn for the better, US take a new lease on life: How can I improve my chances of winning at snooker? Business has improved considerably. 3 convalesce, recuperate, recover, get better, mend, rally, (make) progress, gain (strength or ground), revive: Mrs Costello is out of intensive care and improving daily.
INCLINE|9|v. 1 tend, lean, bend, bow, slant, tilt, angle, bank, slope, ascend, rise, descend: The road inclines to the horizontal after a curve. 2 dispose, influence, persuade, predispose, make, lead, prejudice, bias: Their accents might incline you to think of them as foreigners. 3 tend, lean, gravitate, show favour or preference, be attracted to, be biased or prejudiced, have a mind; be disposed or predisposed, lean, tend: I incline towards the other candidate. He inclines towards corpulence. --n. 4 slope, pitch, grade, gradient, slant, ramp, hill, dip, descent, declivity, rise, ascent, acclivity: The car picked up speed going down one incline and slowed going up the next.
INCLUDE|10|v. 1 incorporate, embody, comprise, embrace, cover, encompass, take in, subsume, comprehend, contain: Staff changes are included in the plan for reorganization. 2 classify, categorize, group, file, list, catalogue, tabulate, register: Did you include psychology among the social sciences? 3 involve, count, number, allow for: Please don't forget to include me in the invitation list.
INDULGE|9|v. 1 Often, indulge in. yield (to), succumb (to), favour, gratify, humour, oblige (with), comply (with), minister to, cater to, pander to, treat (to), pamper (with): When it comes to chocolates, I indulge myself to the fullest. We indulge in an occasional beer. She indulges his every whim. 2 coddle, baby, pamper, cosset, mollycoddle, spoil: He doesn't believe in indulging children.
INEXACT|16|adj. imprecise, inaccurate, erroneous, incorrect, wrong, false, faulty, indefinite, fallacious, fuzzy, muddled: This gauge is giving an inexact reading.
INFANCY|15|n. 1 babyhood, early childhood: His limp was the result of polio, which he had contracted in infancy. 2 beginning(s), inception, early or initial, stage(s), commencement, start, emergence, dawn, rise: When psychiatry was in its infancy it was marked by a notable lack of success.
INFLAME|12|v. 1 arouse, incite, touch off, ignite, enkindle, provoke, rouse, excite, impassion, foment, incense, agitate, stir (up), fire (up), heat, anger, enrage, madden, infuriate, whip or lash up, work up, rile, exasperate, stimulate, animate, move, motivate, urge, prod, goad, spur (on), rally, drive: The speakers inflamed the crowd to riot against the police. 2 aggravate, intensify, deepen, heighten, fan, exacerbate, increase, augment, fuel: She inflamed his dislike of his brother into hatred.
INFLICT|12|v. impose, apply, visit, administer, levy, force on or upon; trouble, afflict: The new government is seeking ways of inflicting more taxes on us. You ought not to inflict punishment on such small children.
INHABIT|12|v. dwell in, reside in, live in, abide in, occupy, settle; locate in, populate, people; colonize: This bird inhabits northern Africa. North America was inhabited by emigrants from Europe.
INHIBIT|12|v. discourage, repress, frustrate, hold back, bridle, curb, control, govern, hinder, restrain, impede, obstruct, interfere with, check, prevent, bar, stop: Her sad look inhibited my expression of delight at seeing her again.
INHUMAN|12|adj. 1 inhumane, merciless, cruel, pitiless, ruthless, heartless, severe, unsympathetic, unfeeling, unkind, unkindly, uncompassionate, cold-blooded, vicious, stony-hearted, hard-hearted, callous, insensitive, barbaric, barbarous, savage: Many refugees have suffered torture and other inhuman treatment. 2 animal, bestial, brutal, brutish, fiendish, diabolical, demonic: The spectre, assuming an inhuman form, loomed over them.
INITIAL|7|adj. 1 original, primary, first; prime, beginning, incipient, inaugural, opening, introductory, commencing: His initial plan, to take the children, was vetoed by his wife. It is best to tread cautiously during the initial stages of the programme. --v. 2 sign, approve, endorse: Please initial the clauses of the contract that we have changed. --n. 3 monogram: The initial 'M' is on all their towels.
INKLING|8|n. hint, suggestion, glimmering, suspicion, whisper, intimation, indication, soupúon, clue, notion, (faintest or foggiest) idea, tip, tip-off: Can you give me an inkling of what you are getting at?
INQUIRE|5|v. 1 Usually, inquire into. search, investigate, probe, examine, research, look into, inspect, study, explore, survey, scrutinize: Scientists are inquiring into the causes of the greenhouse effect. 2 See enquire.
INQUIRY|8|n. 1 enquiry, investigation, probe, examination, research, search, inspection, study, exploration, survey, scrutiny, inquest; questioning, querying, interrogation, inquest, cross-examination, inquisition: The police have asked me to help them with their inquiry. They are conducting an inquiry into the cause of the accident. 2 enquiry, question, query, interrogation: Would you please repeat the inquiry?
INSIGHT|4|n. perception, percipience, sensitivity, perspicacity, perceptiveness, perspicaciousness, discernment, acuteness, acuity, acumen, sharpness, understanding, judgement, comprehension, vision: Chambers has brought his considerable insight to bear on this complex problem.
INSPIRE|9|v. 1 animate, activate, actuate, stimulate, invigorate, stir, move, waken, awaken, arouse, rouse, instigate, prompt, rally, energize, enliven, vitalize, vivify, galvanize, inspirit, excite, spark (off), quicken, kindle, fire, provoke: It was the inflammatory speeches that inspired the crowd to riot. His enthusiasm inspired her to take up writing as a profession. 2 encourage, strengthen, support, reinforce, buoy (up), uplift, boost, affirm, confirm, fortify, buttress: Your example has inspired many young people.
INSTANT|7|n. 1 moment, point, second, time: I was thinking of you at the very instant the phone rang. 2 moment, second, minute, flash, twinkling (of an eye), trice, Colloq jiffy: I'll be with you in an instant, sir. --adj. 3 instantaneous, immediate, on the spot, overnight: His novel was an instant best seller. 4 urgent, crying, pressing, earnest, imperative, critical, exigent; split-second, direct: We have an instant need for a computer specialist. 5 ready-made, ready-mixed, prepared, ready-to-serve, precooked: This is an instant soup - just add hot water to the powder.
INSTEAD|8|adv. 1 as an alternative or a substitute: She wanted me to go but I stayed instead. 2 instead of. alternatively, preferably, in preference to, in place of, in lieu of, rather than, as a substitute for; as contrasted with, as opposed to: Instead of going to the cinema we went to the theatre.
INTENSE|7|adj. 1 extreme, excessive, severe, strong, great, fierce, harsh, acute, powerful, profound, deep: The intense heat kept the firemen at bay. 2 eager, enthusiastic, keen, earnest, sincere, heartfelt, deep, passionate, impassioned, ardent, zealous, animated, burning, consuming, fervent, fervid, perfervid, vehement, frantic, fanatical, frenzied: I had an intense desire to see the culprit brought to justice. 3 highly-strung or chiefly US high-strung, emotional, temperamental, tense, touchy, testy, volatile, hysterical, hotheaded, feverish, nervous, (high-)spirited, impetuous, impulsive, Colloq uptight: I appreciate his enthusiasm, but I wish Henshawe were a bit less intense about his politics.
INTRUDE|8|v. interfere, break in, interrupt, intervene, push in, interpose, butt in, infringe, encroach, obtrude, Colloq horn in, barge in: They want to be alone and you are intruding. Forgive me for intruding into your conversation.
INVALID|11|adj. 1 ailing, sick, sickly, ill, infirm, valetudinarian, disabled: His invalid sister is confined to a wheelchair. --n. 2 patient, valetudinarian, victim, sufferer, incurable, cripple, Chiefly US and Canadian shut-in: Many invalids have claimed complete recovery after a visit to Lourdes.
INVOLVE|13|v. 1 include, contain, comprise, cover, embrace, incorporate, encompass, take in, subsume, embody, comprehend, number among, count in: The survey involved many people from all walks of life. 2 imply, entail, suggest, mean, betoken, require, necessitate, presuppose: Enrolling for a course involves doing homework as well as attending classes. 3 Often, involve in or with. implicate, concern, affect, touch, entangle, draw in; incriminate, inculpate; associate with, connect with, catch (up) in: I didn't know that Annette was involved. Are you involved in that murder investigation?
IRKSOME|13|adj. irritating, annoying, vexing, vexatious, chafing, nettling, exasperating, bothersome, troublesome, burdensome, tiresome, tedious, boring, wearisome, uninteresting, Colloq aggravating, pestiferous: The mosquitoes are particularly irksome on muggy, windless evenings.
ISOLATE|7|v. separate, segregate, sequester, cloister, detach, cut off, send to Coventry, ostracize, maroon, exclude, shut out, bar, debar, banish, deport, transport, exile, reject, eject, throw out, expel, shun, spurn, avoid, ignore, snub; quarantine; Colloq cut, give (someone) the cold shoulder: You cannot isolate a child from the pressures of modern society.
ITEMIZE|18|v. enumerate, list, specify, particularize, detail, document, number, record, count, tabulate: Must I itemize every single book in the inventory?
JEALOUS|11|adj. 1 resentful, bitter, grudging, envious, covetous, green with envy, green-eyed: Brian is jealous of attention paid to anyone but himself. 2 distrustful, distrusting, mistrustful, mistrusting, suspicious; anxious, insecure, threatened, imperilled, vulnerable: Ken is very jealous of Kathleen. If anyone so much as looks at her, he feels jealous.
JITTERS|12|n.pl. shakes, fidgets, nerves, uneasiness, queasiness, nervousness, skittishness, restlessness, apprehension, apprehensiveness, Slang heebie-jeebies, willies US whim-whams: He always gets an attack of the jitters before an exam.
JOINTED|15|v. articulated, segmented, sectioned, sectionalized, hinged: The stick is jointed so that it can be folded for carrying in the pocket.
JOURNAL|14|n. 1 periodical, magazine, gazette, newspaper, paper, newsletter, review, tabloid; daily, weekly, monthly, fortnightly, quarterly, annual: The journal contains information about every building permit awarded in the entire country. 2 diary, chronicle, dossier, record, register, log, logbook, minute-book, minutes, documentation, album, scrapbook, memoir, almanac, annal, history, yearbook, record book; roll, catalogue, list: He kept a detailed journal of every event in his twenty-year exile.
JOURNEY|17|n. 1 trip, voyage, excursion, tour, travel, outing, expedition, junket, cruise, jaunt, pilgrimage, peregrination, odyssey, trek: Did your wife accompany you on your journey to Tierra del Fuego? 2 way, passage, passing, transit, transition, progress, course, way, trip, route, career: On your journey through this life, Whatever be your goal, Keep your eye upon the doughnut, And not upon the hole. --v. 3 travel, tour, voyage, go (abroad or overseas), make or take a trip, make or wend one's way, make a pilgrimage, peregrinate, trek, rove, range, wander, roam, tour, cruise, gad (about), gallivant or galivant or galavant: He journeyed to the far corners of the earth seeking an answer to life's mysteries.
JOYLESS|15|adj. 1 sad, unhappy, miserable, depressed, dejected, mournful, downhearted, downcast, down, despondent, dispirited, melancholy, heavy-hearted, cheerless, doleful, grief-stricken, disheartened, saddened, crestfallen, wretched, disconsolate, inconsolable, morose, heartsick, sorrowful, woeful, woebegone: It was a joyless company that stood at the grave side. The cat died, the dog died, and my husband was ill - all in all, a joyless time. 2 gloomy, depressing, dispiriting, disheartening, dreary, lugubrious, cheerless, dismal, bleak, inhospitable, desolate, grim, austere, severe: The shuttered, joyless house loomed out of the misty moor ahead.
JUSTICE|16|n. 1 fairness, impartiality, objectivity, objectiveness, equity, equitableness, fair-mindedness, justness, even-handedness, neutrality, fair play: Justice triumphed on this occasion, and he was convicted of fraud. 2 the law, the police; punishment, prison, imprisonment, incarceration, detention: He is a fugitive from justice. 3 law, right, morality, lawfulness, rightfulness, legitimacy, judiciousness: His conviction was a miscarriage of justice. 4 See judge, 1.
JUSTIFY|20|v. vindicate, legitimate, legitimatize or legitimize, legalize, rationalize, substantiate, defend, support, uphold, sustain, validate, warrant, confirm; excuse, explain, absolve, acquit, exculpate: My worst fears were justified. How can you justify owning three cars?
KILLING|6|n. 1 murder, carnage, butchery, execution, slaughter, bloodshed, death, massacre, genocide, liquidation, mass murder or destruction, decimation, extermination, blood bath, manslaughter; slaying, homicide, fatality: The killing of dissidents must stop. There has been another killing in the park. 2 coup, bonanza, success, windfall, stroke of luck, gain, profit, Colloq Brit bomb: They've made a killing on the Stock Exchange. --adj. 3 devastating, ruinous, destructive, punishing, exhausting, debilitating, fatiguing, tiring, enervating, difficult, arduous: How can you keep up the killing pace of having two jobs?
KILLJOY|19|n. spoilsport, damper, dampener, grouch, grump, malcontent, pessimist, cynic, prophet of doom, Cassandra, Colloq wet blanket, sourpuss, US party pooper, gloomy Gus, picklepuss: Go to the dance and stop being such a killjoy!
KINDRED|13|adj. 1 close, associated, united, allied, analogous, like, similar, matching, parallel, common, related; akin: Because we both like sports, Samantha's interests are kindred to mine. 2 related, consanguineous, consanguine, cognate, agnate: Linguists regard the Romance languages as kindred tongues. --n. 3 See kin, 1.
KINGDOM|11|n. 1 realm, empire, sovereignty, principality, monarchy: He sought a suitable wife throughout the kingdom. 2 field, area, domain, province, sphere (of influence), territory, bailiwick, Colloq turf: The operating theatre is the surgeon's kingdom.
KINSHIP|11|n. 1 consanguinity, (blood) relationship, (family) ties, (common) descent, lineage, flesh and blood: At that time, several of the royal houses of Europe were connected by kinship. 2 connection, correspondence, parallelism, relationship, similarity, association, agreement, alliance; affinity: There is a clear kinship among the Germanic languages. She felt a kinship with other adopted children.
KITCHEN|9|n. kitchenette, cookhouse; scullery, pantry, larder; Nautical galley, Brit caboose: He was in the kitchen getting dinner ready.
KNOWING|11|adj. 1 conspiratorial or conspiratory, secret, private; significant, meaningful, eloquent, expressive; shrewd, canny, artful, sly, wily, crafty: She gave him a knowing wink. 2 wise, clever, shrewd, (well-)informed, knowledgeable or knowledgable, aware, expert, qualified, astute, perceptive, intelligent, sagacious: Harold is quite knowing about horses, why not ask him?
LAGGARD|6|n. straggler, idler, dawdler, loiterer, slouch, sluggard, loafer, snail, loller, Colloq Brit slowcoach , US slowpoke: As a young boy he was always the laggard, dragging along behind everyone else.
LAMPOON|9|n. 1 burlesque, caricature, satire, parody, pasquinade or pasquil, squib, Colloq take-off, Brit send-up: The students published a hilarious lampoon of the teaching staff. --v. 2 burlesque, caricature, satirize, parody, pasquinade or pasquil, mock, ridicule, squib, US skewer, Colloq take off, put or run down, Brit send up: The cows we hold most sacred are often lampooned by irreverent cartoonists.
LANDING|5|n. 1 touchdown, alighting, splashdown, docking: The fog made landing quite dangerous. 2 disembarkation, deplaning, arrival: After landing, passengers proceed through passport control. 3 landing-place, dock, pier, jetty, wharf, quay: We walked onto the landing to watch the ship come in.
LAWLESS|8|adj. 1 anarchic(al), anarchistic, chaotic, unruly, unregulated: There was a lawless period between the revolution and the establishment of government. 2 illegal, illicit, unlawful, criminal, felonious, larcenous, dishonest, corrupt, venal, Colloq crooked: Holding a demonstration without a permit is a lawless act. 3 villainous, nefarious, wicked, sinful, flagitious, iniquitous, treacherous: He was once a member of a lawless motor-cycle gang.
LEANING|4|n. bent, inclination, bias, prejudice, favouritism, partiality, predilection, liking, taste, preference, penchant, sympathy, tendency, tendentiousness: The judges' leanings in favour of short-haired dogs are well known.
LEARNER|7|n. student, pupil, scholar, trainee, apprentice, novice, tiro or tyro, abecedarian, beginner, initiate, neophyte: Learners of English as a second language will benefit from this book.
LEGIBLE|5|adj. readable, decipherable, clear, understandable, plain, distinct: The handwriting is legible, but I don't know what language it's in.
LEISURE|7|n. 1 spare or free time, time (off), liberty, freedom, opportunity: How many people these days have the leisure to do what they like? 2 holiday, vacation, respite, relief, rest, recreation, relaxation, ease, breathing-space, quiet, tranquillity, repose, US military rest and recreation, R and R: Everyone needs a few days of leisure now and then. 3 at leisure. a unoccupied, inactive, retired, resting, free, on holiday or chiefly US and Canadian vacation; at liberty, available, unemployed: I have been at leisure for a year now. b Often, at one's leisure. at one's convenience, when convenient, unhurriedly, in one's own time: I shall mow the lawn at my leisure. --adj. 4 recreational: The 'leisure industry' is booming with theme parks opening throughout the country. 5 free, unoccupied, non-working, unencumbered, idle, holiday, vacation: How do you usually spend your leisure time?
LENGTHY|9|adj. long, over-long, long-drawn(-out), protracted; endless, interminable, prolonged, long-winded, wordy, prolix, verbose, garrulous, talkative, loquacious, boring, dull, tedious: He underwent a lengthy operation for removal of the clot. She launched into a lengthy description of the life cycle of a frog.
LENIENT|7|adj. gentle, kind, kindly, easy, sparing, merciful, tender, humane, tender-hearted, kind-hearted, indulgent, permissive, forgiving, easygoing, tolerant, patient, compassionate, forbearing, understanding, magnanimous, generous, charitable: Do you think they were lenient in their treatment of prisoners caught while escaping?
LIAISON|7|n. 1 connection, communication, contact, linkage, affiliation, relationship, relations: Liaison between the ministries is improving. 2 contact, intermediary, link, tie, medium, go-between, agent: She acts as liaison between the heads of research and manufacturing. 3 (love) affair, amour, relationship, affaire d'amour, affaire de coeur, intrigue, romance, entanglement, flirtation: David's wife soon found out about his liaison with the girl in the typing pool.
LIBERAL|9|adj. 1 generous, bountiful, free, open-hearted, open, open-handed, bounteous, charitable, philanthropic, munificent, magnanimous, big, big-hearted, unstinting, unselfish, unsparing; lavish, abundant, ample, large, handsome, plentiful, copious: Lady Browning is a liberal benefactor of our cause. Thank you for your liberal contributions. 2 progressive, libertarian, reformist, humanistic, left (of centre), latitudinarian, non-partisan, unaligned or non-aligned, individualistic, South African verligte: The liberal voters found little to attract them in the latest election. 3 free, not literal, flexible, lenient, loose, broad, open, disinterested, impartial, dispassionate, fair, broad-minded, open-minded, unprejudiced, unbigoted, unjaundiced, unopinionated, tolerant: Judge Reid is known for his liberal interpretation of the law. --n. 4 progressive, libertarian, reformer, progressivist, latitudinarian, independent, freethinker, leftist, left-winger, South African verligte: They think of themselves as liberals, not as conservatives.
LIBERTY|12|n. 1 freedom, independence, self-determination, autonomy, self-rule, self-government, self-direction, sovereignty: People have always been willing to die for their liberty. 2 right, freedom, franchise, carte blanche, privilege, prerogative, licence, leave, permission, authorization: I was given the liberty to go where I pleased. 3 freedom, licence, initiative, exemption, exception, privilege: On a strict diet, she allowed herself no liberties whatever. 4 at liberty. free, uninhibited, unfettered, unconstrained, unrestricted, unrestrained, liberated: I was at liberty to do as I pleased. 5 take a liberty or the liberty or often liberties. be unrestrained or presumptuous or bold or uninhibited or overfamiliar or forward or aggressive or impudent or impertinent or audacious or improper; display or exercise boldness or impropriety or presumption or presumptuousness or indecorum or unseemliness or boldness or arrogance: She thought he was taking liberties in asking her to dance. I took the liberty of asking her to accompany me.
LICENCE|11|n. 1 leave, permission, liberty, authorization, authority, entitlement, dispensation, right, carte blanche, freedom, latitude, free choice, privilege, charter: Merely being eighteen does not give you licence to do exactly as you please. 2 permit, certificate, credential(s), paper(s): Bring along your driving licence. 3 disregard, deviation, departure, nonconformity, non-compliance, divergence: Such grammatical abnormalities are an exercise of poetic licence.
LICENSE|9|v. 1 authorize, allow, permit, certify, sanction, approve, commission: The government once had the power to license books for publication. 2 certify, document, accredit, entitle, validate, enable, empower: Whoever licensed him to drive a car made a grave mistake.
LIGHTEN|4|v. 1 illuminate, brighten, light up: Opening the curtains would lighten up the room. 2 cheer (up), brighten, gladden, shine; smile: Her face lightened when he said he would be home for the holidays.
LIMITED|10|adj. 1 circumscribed, restricted, fixed, predetermined; small, little, reduced, minimal: The theatre seats a limited number of people. She was awarded limited access to the children. 2 narrow, restricted, restrictive, meagre: Few original ideas presented themselves to his limited imagination.
LINEAGE|8|n. 1 extraction, ancestry, family tree, pedigree, descent, stock, bloodline, parentage, genealogy: She has spent a lot of time tracing the lineage of the village's families. 2 forebears, forefathers, foremothers, family, people, clan; descendants, succession, progeny, offspring: Does Debrett list his lineage? Peerages were confined to the lineage of the person ennobled.
LITERAL|7|adj. 1 word-for-word, verbatim, line-for-line, letter-for-letter, literatim, exact, precise, faithful, strict: In a literal translation the spirit of the original is often lost. 2 denotative, etymological, semantic, dictionary, lexical, basic, essential, pure, simple, simplistic, real, objective, true, genuine, bona fide, unvarnished, unadulterated, unembellished, simple-minded, uncomplicated, unbiased, unprejudiced, Colloq honest-to-goodness, honest-to-God: 'Female parent' may be the literal definition of mother, but it doesn't convey the emotional and connotative senses of the word. 3 prosaic, matter-of-fact, colourless, dull, down-to-earth, literal-minded, unimaginative, humdrum, boring, tedious: His literal approach to everything spoils the conversation for those who have any spirit.
LODGING|6|n. Often, lodgings. accommodation(s), shelter, quarters, rooms, apartment, housing, house, dwelling, dwelling-place, residence: I found a night's lodging in Cranberry Street.
LOGICAL|10|adj. 1 syllogistic(al), inferential, deductive, inductive: Her argument follows basic logical criteria. 2 reasonable, plausible, sensible, sound, valid, intelligent, judicious, practical, rational, wise, proper: Is it logical to assume that people will believe you? 3 well-organized, sound, coherent, consistent, sensible, rational, reasonable, well-reasoned, well-thought-out: The proposal is set forth in a logical fashion, from premise to conclusion.
LONGING|5|n. craving, wish, yearning, hunger, fancy, desire, hankering, Colloq yen: I have a longing to be home again.
LOOKOUT|9|n. 1 guard, sentry, sentinel, watchman: The lookout reported that the fort was surrounded by Cochise's braves. 2 alert, qui vive; guard, watch: Be on the lookout for shoplifters. 3 responsibility, worry, concern, problem, difficulty, Colloq headache: How he wastes his free time is his lookout, how he spends his working time is ours.
LOTTERY|8|n. raffle, sweepstake, drawing, pool, Brit tombola: I've never known anyone who won anything in the national lottery.
LOVABLE|7|adj. loveable, adorable, darling, dear, cherished, likeable, attractive, engaging, cute, fetching, taking, alluring, endearing, appealing, winsome, sweet, tender, cuddly, affectionate, charming, enchanting: She has the most lovable little baby boy.
LOWDOWN|14|n. information, intelligence, data, the facts, inside story, Colloq info, dope, dirt, Brit bumf: I have the low-down on the scandal.
LOYALTY|13|n. faithfulness, fidelity, dependability, devotedness, devotion, allegiance, patriotism, trustworthiness, steadfastness, staunchness, firmness, resolution, resolve, reliability, stability, dedication, constancy: I hope that we can rely on the loyalty of everyone in your unit, Colonel.
LUGGAGE|6|n. baggage, bags, gear, impedimenta, paraphernalia, things, belongings: When I arrived in Torremolinos, I found my luggage was missing.
LUSTFUL|10|adj. libidinous, carnal, concupiscent, licentious, lewd, prurient, lascivious, salacious, Colloq horny, randy: On her way to work she was forced to endure daily the lustful calls of the construction workers.
LYRICAL|12|adj. 1 See lyric, 1, above. 2 enthusiastic, ecstatic, encomiastic, rapturous, rhapsodic, effusive, impassioned, emotional, ebullient, exuberant, panegyrical: He waxed lyrical whenever he spoke of his children.
MACHINE|7|n. 1 mechanism, device, apparatus, contrivance, appliance, instrument, implement, tool, utensil, gadget, Colloq contraption, US gismo or gizmo: What kind of machine is used to make a corkscrew? 2 engine, motor, prime mover, vehicle; car, automobile, motor car, US auto: We used to get into the machine and go for Sunday picnics. 3 organization, system, ring, gang, cabal, clique, party, faction: The entire council is run by a political machine. --v. 4 shape, make, manufacture: In this department we machine the castings to a tolerance of one ten-thousandth of an inch.
MAGNIFY|16|v. 1 enlarge, expand, amplify, inflate, increase, augment, exaggerate, heighten, build up, boost, dramatize, aggravate, worsen, exacerbate; overstate, Colloq blow up, make a mountain out of a molehill: Tiny errors in the beginning are magnified later on. I fear that he has magnified its importance out of all proportion. 2 enlarge, blow up: They had to magnify the photograph to read the registration number of the stolen car.
MANHOOD|11|n. 1 masculinity, manliness, manfulness, virility, Colloq machismo: He felt that looking after the children at home somehow compromised his manhood. 2 bravery, pluck, boldness, determination, resolution, fortitude, grit, spirit, force, US intestinal fortitude, Colloq guts: He joined the army to test his manhood.
MARTIAL|9|adj. 1 warlike, belligerent, bellicose, pugnacious, militant: We had no suspicion of their martial intentions. He is an expert in the martial arts. 2 military, soldierly, courageous, brave, valorous, valiant, stalwart, staunch, stout-hearted: The speech was intended to rouse the soldiers' martial spirit.
MASSAGE|8|n. 1 rub-down, rub, manipulation, kneading: I felt really relaxed after the massage and steam bath. --v. 2 rub down, manipulate, knead, palpate: She gently massaged my temples with her fingertips. 3 manipulate, handle, manoeuvre, Colloq finagle, Brit fiddle: He massaged the figures to make it look as if the company was solvent.
MASSIVE|10|adj. big, large, oversized, huge, bulky, enormous, hulking, immense, gigantic, towering, mammoth, colossal, titanic, vast, tremendous, prodigious, mountainous, gargantuan, Brobdingnagian, Cyclopean, elephantine, jumbo, stupendous, mighty, weighty, ponderous, Literary massy, Colloq walloping, whopping, monster, Brit whacking (great), US ginormous, humongous: They built a massive wall round the city. Massive beams support the roof.
MAXIMUM|20|n. 1 most, utmost, uttermost, greatest, peak, extreme, extremity, pinnacle, top, highest, (upper) limit: Turn the volume up to the maximum. 2 zenith, pinnacle, peak, limit, apex, acme, apogee, climax, crest, high(est) point, top, summit: Her career reached its maximum in the 1930s. --adj. 3 maximal, greatest, most, utmost, uttermost, superlative, supreme, paramount, extreme, highest, top, topmost, climactic, crowning: The maximum amount that I can afford for a car is ø2000.
MEANDER|10|v. 1 wander, ramble, zigzag, snake, wind, twist, turn; stroll, amble, rove, Colloq mosey, Brit swan around or about: The river meandered with a mazy motion through the meadows. We meandered through the forest. --n. 2 Often, meanders. meandering(s), turn(s), turning(s), twist(s), twisting(s), winding(s), curve(s), curving(s), loop(s), looping(s), bend(s), coil(s), zigzag(s), convolutions; tortuosities, flexuosities, anfractuosities: We followed the river's meanders till we came to the ruined church.
MEANING|6|n. 1 sense, import, content, signification, denotation, message, substance, gist: The meaning of the word 'lucid' is clear. 2 purport, implication, drift, spirit, connotation, significance, intention: You understand my meaning, so I need not explain. 3 interpretation, explanation: What is the meaning of my dream about being attacked by my philodendron?
MEASURE|9|n. 1 amount, quantity, magnitude, amplitude, size, bulk, mass, extent, reach, dimension, scope, proportions, range, spread; capacity, volume; width, length, breadth, height; weight: It is difficult to calculate the measure of an irregularly shaped object. 2 scale, gauge or technical gage, yardstick, rule, US litmus test: I cannot determine the length without a proper measure. 3 system, standard, criterion, rule, method; barometer, Richter scale: The measure by which ice-cream is sold ought to be weight, not volume. What sort of measure do you apply when judging character? 4 assessment, evaluation, valuation, appraisal, value, gauge or gage, rank, rating, measurement, stamp, estimation: It is not easy to get the measure of a man who wants to marry your daughter. 5 quota, allotment, ration, share, amount, degree, proportion, quantity, allowance; portion, part: He was accorded a measure of freedom in choosing the method for getting the job done. She has had her measure of praise. 6 Often, measures. step(s), procedure, proceeding, action, course (of action), plan, method, means, avenue, tactic(s), way, direction, approach, technique: They took measures to ensure that it never happens again. 7 bill, resolution, legislation, act, statute, law; plan, proposal: A measure to change the speed limit is before the council. 8 bound, limit, end, extreme, extent, limitation, moderation, control, constraint, restraint: Drug trafficking has gone beyond all measure in some countries. 9 beat, rhythm, cadence, metre, time; melody, tune, bar, theme, motif: The ambassador entered, and the band played in stately measures. 10 for good measure. to boot, in addition, additionally, as a dividend, into the bargain, besides, as or for a bonus, moreover, furthermore: The job includes a company car and, for good measure, free medical insurance. --v. 11 rank, rate, gauge or gage, meter, weigh, calculate, reckon, compute, calibrate, determine, ascertain, figure out or up, assess, appraise, estimate...
MEETING|4|n. 1 appointment, engagement, rendezvous, encounter, assignation, tryst, Slang US meet: She arranged a meeting with her ex-husband. 2 assembly, convention, conference, gathering, congress, conclave, session, congregation, convocation, US caucus, Colloq get-together: Nominations for next year's officers will be presented at the next meeting. 3 convergence, converging, confluence, joining, union, junction, conjunction, intersection: The earliest settlement was at the meeting of the two rivers. 4 See meet, 7, above.
MEMENTO|11|n. 1 souvenir, keepsake, remembrance, relic, trophy, token: I kept his medals as a memento of our time together. 2 mementos. memorabilia: There will be an auction of war mementos next week.
MENTION|9|v. 1 speak or write about, refer to, allude to, touch on or upon, make mention (of), bring up or in, introduce, broach, call or direct attention to, note, name, cite, acknowledge; point out, indicate, make known, adduce, report, quote: Sergeant Payne was mentioned in dispatches from the front. He mentions the works of Conrad in support of his thesis. 2 divulge, reveal, intimate, disclose, impart, suggest, animadvert on or upon, hint (at), imply, insinuate: Did he mention that Liz was present? --n. 3 reference, allusion, note, naming, citation, mentioning, Colloq cite: There was a mention of you in the newspaper today. 4 recognition, tribute, acknowledgement, kudos, praise: She won no prize but came in for an honourable mention. 5 announcement, reference, referral, remark: The speaker's mention of the conference reminded me of something.
MESSAGE|8|n. 1 communication, bulletin, report, communiqu÷, news, dispatch or despatch, information, word, intelligence, tidings; note, missive, letter, memorandum: The message reached us by carrier pigeon. 2 speech, address, presentation, statement, declaration: His message was delivered via television to people everywhere. 3 idea, point, import, meaning, essence, implication: The message that he isn't liked around here still hasn't penetrated his thick skull.
MESSIAH|10|n. deliverer, liberator, emancipator, saviour, rescuer: They believe in a Messiah who will release them from earthly bondage.
MICROBE|13|n. micro-organism, microzoon, germ; bacterium, virus, Colloq bug: Only recently has science learnt that diseases are caused by microbes.
MIDWIFE|16|n. accoucheur or accoucheuse: Most babies in the world are delivered by midwives.
MILKSOP|15|n. sissy or Brit also cissy, coward, weakling, namby-pamby, mollycoddle, cry-baby, nancy (boy), dastard, poltroon, caitiff, (little) Lord Fauntleroy, poltroon, Archaic caitiff, US milquetoast, Colloq chinless wonder, Brit mother's or mummy's boy, US mama's boy, pantywaist, Slang pansy: We want men, not milksops, in the Marines.
MINCING|8|adj. effeminate, dainty, delicate, niminy-piminy, foppish, dandyish, over-dainty, affected, put-on, pretentious, precious, Brit twee, Colloq la-di-da or lah-di-dah or la-de-da: His mincing speech sets my teeth on edge.
MINDFUL|13|adj. Often, mindful of. aware, alert, attentive to, alive, conscious, heedful, conscientious, watchful, vigilant, on the qui vive, on the lookout, circumspect, cautious: I am ever mindful of the way you like things done. She was always mindful of keeping the plants well watered.
MINIMAL|11|adj. least, smallest, minutest, littlest, tiniest, slightest; minimum, nominal, token: As a house plant, the cactus requires minimal attention. There is a minimal charge for service.
MINIMUM|13|n. 1 least, lowest, nadir: The hotel offered the minimum of comfort for the maximum price. --adj. 2 minimal, nominal, reduced, minutest, littlest, least, slightest, lowest: What is the minimum deposit the travel agent will accept? He refused to make even the minimum effort needed to save himself.
MISDEED|9|n. Often, misdeeds. offence, crime, felony, wrongdoing, misdoing, transgression, misdemeanour, fault, misconduct, sin, trespass, wrong, peccadillo: Who will punish him for his misdeeds now that he is safe in Argentina?
MISERLY|12|adj. stingy, penurious, niggardly, penny-pinching, parsimonious, mean, cheap, cheese-paring, tight, tight-fisted, close, close-fisted, mercenary, avaricious, greedy, covetous, Colloq money-grubbing, Brit mingy, US chintzy: Flynn is too miserly to lend you a penny.
MISFIRE|12|v. 1 fail, abort, miscarry, go wrong, fizzle (out), fall through, Colloq flop, come a cropper, Brit go phut, US go pfft or phft: The plan to take over the conglomerate misfired when the shares soared in price. --n. 2 miscarriage, failure, fizzle, dud, Colloq abort, flop: After two misfires, we gave up trying to buy a time-share in the Algarve.
MISSILE|7|n. projectile, brickbat; guided missile, ballistic missile: Bottles, stones, and other missiles were thrown at the police during the riot.
MISSION|7|n. 1 task, duty, function, purpose, job, office, work, assignment, errand, charge, business, commission, undertaking, pursuit, activity, aim, objective: He accepted the mission to convert the natives to Christianity. 2 calling, occupation, vocation, trade, line (of work), profession, m÷tier: It has become my mission in life to see that you learn how to do sums. 3 delegation, legation, deputation, commission, committee, group, ministry: She has been sent on a governmental trade mission to Botswana.
MISSIVE|10|n. letter, communication, message, dispatch, note, line, postcard, card, epistle: I have just received a missive from great-aunt Cecilia that took me an hour to read.
MISSTEP|9|n. 1 false step, blunder, mistake, error, bad or wrong or false move, trip, stumble, slip: One misstep meant a fall into the abyss. 2 indiscretion, mistake, lapse, faux pas, oversight, error, gaffe, Colloq slip-up, Slang howler, Brit bloomer, US and Canadian blooper, goof: Her misstep was telling her fianc÷'s mother that she had formerly been an artist's model.
MISTAKE|13|n. 1 misconception, misapprehension, error, fault, miscalculation, misjudgement, blunder, botch, fumble, bad move, misstep, slip, erratum, gaffe, faux pas, Colloq boo-boo, clanger, muff, howler, Brit boob, bloomer, US blooper, goof, goof-up, flub: Giving Aston a salary rise was a mistake. 2 indiscretion, misstep, false step, wrong move: It was a mistake not to stand up when she entered. --v. 3 misunderstand, misinterpret, misjudge, misconstrue, take the wrong way, get wrong, misread, misapprehend: The fool mistook my remark as a compliment. 4 mistake for. mix up with, misidentify as, confuse with, take for: In the dark, she mistook him for her husband.
MOCKERY|10|n. 1 ridicule, derision, disdain, taunting, disparagement, abuse, scorn, contempt, contumely, decrial: John was expelled for his mockery of the headmaster. 2 semblance, imitation, impersonation; caricature, parody, burlesque, travesty, lampoon, satire, pasquinade, farce; miscarriage; Colloq spoof, take-off, Brit send-up: That wasn't a trial, it was a mockery of justice. 3 disappointment, joke, laugh, absurdity: It is a mockery to speak of that wretched sadist and humanity in the same breath.
MODICUM|14|n. bit, trifle, jot, jot or tittle, atom, scintilla, spark, particle, iota, speck, grain, whit, scrap, shred, snippet, sliver, fragment, splinter, morsel, crumb, ounce, dram, drop, dash, spot, touch, tinge, hint, suggestion, Colloq smidgen or smidgin: One must exercise a modicum of judgement in affairs of the heart.
MONARCH|7|n. 1 ruler, sovereign, potentate, crowned head; queen, king, empress, emperor, tsar or czar: Mary was the monarch of Scotland from 1542 to 1567. 2 ruler, sovereign, chief, lord, master, owner, Colloq boss: He is monarch of all he surveys.
MORNING|6|n. 1 forenoon, a.m., dawn, daybreak, sunrise, Literary morn, Archaic cock crow, day-spring, morrow, Chiefly US sun-up: The meeting will be at nine o'clock in the morning. --adj. 2 matutinal, matinal, a.m., forenoon: I prefer a morning meeting.
MORTIFY|15|v. 1 humiliate, shame, humble, embarrass, abash, chagrin, rebuff, crush, discomfit, deflate, bring down, degrade, downgrade, reduce, chasten, subdue, suppress, make someone eat humble pie, teach someone his or her place, Colloq put down: She was mortified to learn that she had been disqualified. 2 punish, castigate, discipline, control, subdue, subjugate: Repentance was considered insufficient penance, so the flagellants mortified the flesh with scourges. 3 gangrene, fester, necrose, putrefy, rot, decompose, decay, putresce: After a fortnight, the flesh mortifies and falls away.
MOTTLED|8|adj. dappled, brindled, marbled, streaked, splodgy or US splotchy, blotched, blotchy, freckled, spotted, spotty, patchy, speckled, flecked, sprinkled, spattered, splashed, streaky, stippled, pied, piebald; multicoloured, variegated, particoloured, Colloq splodged or US splotched: Do you like that mottled effect on the wallpaper?
MOVABLE|9|adj. moveable, floating, variable, changeable, unfixed; portable, transportable, transferable or transferrable: Easter Sunday is a movable feast and has no fixed date on the calendar. Recent developments have produced computers that are smaller than an attach÷ case and easily movable.
MUFFLER|7|n. scarf, boa; shawl, wrap: Wrap this muffler round your neck for added warmth.
MUSICAL|11|adj. tuneful, melodic, harmonious, lilting, lyrical, melodious, mellifluous, dulcet, euphonious: Many modern compositions, while technically competent, are not as musical as the old-fashioned pieces.
MYSTERY|15|n. 1 puzzle, enigma, conundrum, riddle, question: How he escaped from the locked room is a mystery. 2 obscurity, secrecy, indefiniteness, vagueness, nebulousness, ambiguity, ambiguousness, inscrutability, inscrutableness: The identity of the beautiful lady in the green dress is shrouded in mystery. 3 detective story or novel, murder (story), Colloq whodunit: Joel, who once fancied himself an intellectual, now reads nothing but mysteries.
MYSTIFY|18|v. fool, hoax, humbug, confuse, confound, mix up, bewilder, stump, puzzle, baffle, Colloq bamboozle, stump, flummox, Slang beat: We were totally mystified by the unfamiliar symbols on the wall.
NAGGING|2|adj. distressing, chronic, continuous, continual, persistent, unrelenting, relentless, recurring: He complains of a nagging pain in his shoulder. I have a nagging feeling that I have an appointment to be somewhere.
NATURAL|7|adj. 1 ordinary, common, commonplace, normal, standard, regular, usual, customary, unexceptional, routine, habitual, typical, everyday; reasonable, logical, reasonable, sensible, accepted: They say that Count Dracula could not die a natural death. The natural thing to do in case of attack is to defend oneself. 2 normal, ordinary, regular, expected; spontaneous: The natural motion of the waves carried the bottle out to sea. 3 simple, basic, fundamental, real, unartificial, genuine, unembellished, unadorned, unpretentious: She has great natural beauty and needs no cosmetics. 4 unstudied, unconstrained, candid, frank, spontaneous, unaffected, easy, honest, straight, straightforward, artless, guileless, impulsive, unpremeditated, unaffected, ingenuous, unsophisticated, unsophistic(al): His kindness is quite natural. 5 See native, 1, above: She has a natural gift for painting. 6 true, real, genuine, actual, authentic, bona fide: That, believe it or not, is his natural hair. 7 lifelike, true to life, realistic: Note the natural colours of the sea in this painting by Whistler. 8 illegitimate, bastard: He was the duke's natural son and had no claim on the estate. 9 consistent, consonant, consequent, logical, reasonable, fitting, appropriate, proper, expected, not incongruous, understandable: In the circumstances, it would have been natural for her to despise Jonathan. 10 organic, organically grown, non-chemical, health: They eat only natural foods, which they grow themselves. --n. 11 genius, artist, talent: When it comes to chess, Boris is a natural. 12 Archaic idiot, imbecile, simpleton, fool, halfwit: One would have to be a natural to give money to that crook.
NAUGHTY|14|adj. 1 mischievous, impish, puckish, roguish, scampish, devilish; frolicsome, playful: The children would get naughty the minute the teacher turned her back to the class. 2 disobedient, refractory, insubordinate, bad, perverse, wicked, fractious, unruly, wayward, unmanageable, ungovernable, undisciplined, defiant, obstreperous: Naughty pupils in this school are birched. 3 improper, offensive, vulgar, indecent, immoral, risqu÷, off colour, ribald, bawdy, blue, pornographic, smutty, lewd, obscene, dirty, Colloq X-rated, raunchy: The teacher caught Keith reading a naughty book.
NEGLECT|10|v. 1 disregard, ignore, slight, pay no attention to, be inattentive to, overlook, pass by, spurn, rebuff, scorn, disdain, contemn, Colloq cold-shoulder: Scholars neglected his work for years. 2 fail (in), omit; disregard, let slide or pass, be remiss (about or in or regarding), abandon, lose sight of, forget, shirk: Have I neglected telling you how much I love you? Sybil has neglected her obligations. --n. 3 disregard, disrespect, inattention, indifference, slighting, unconcern, oversight, heedlessness, neglectfulness, carelessness, inadvertence: We lost business to our competitor through simple neglect. 4 negligence, laxity, laxness, slackness, neglectfulness, passivity, passiveness, inactivity, inaction, dereliction, default, failure, failing, remissness: She has been accused of neglect in looking after her children properly.
NERVOUS|7|adj. 1 highly-strung, excitable, sensitive, tense, agitated, wrought up, worked up, upset, flustered, ruffled, disturbed, perturbed, distressed, worried, anxious, troubled, concerned, disquieted, edgy, on edge, on tenterhooks, fidgety, fretful, uneasy, apprehensive, frightened, fearful, shaky, scared, skittish, US on a tightrope, Colloq jumpy, jittery, flappable, in a stew, in a dither, in a sweat, in a tizzy, in a flap, uptight, Brit nervy, US on pins and needles, Slang strung out: Thomas is nervous because he has to give a speech. 2 difficult, tense, critical: There were a few nervous moments before we knew if the rope would hold.
NIGHTLY|7|adj. 1 every night, each night, each and every night, night after night: The watchman does his nightly rounds. 2 night-time, nocturnal, bedtime: A nightly glass of warm milk promotes sound sleep. --adv. 3 every night, each night, nights, after dark, after sunset; nocturnally: The bird sings nightly outside my window.
NODDING|2|adj. casual, slight, superficial, distant; incomplete: I know Graham slightly - he's a nodding acquaintance. It was clear that the violinist had only a nodding acquaintance with Mozart's concerto.
NOMINAL|9|adj. 1 titular, in name only, formal, pretended, so-called, self-styled, soi-disant, professed, purported, supposed, would-be, representational, represented, supposititious; proposed, propositional; puppet: Elliot is the nominal chairman, but Foster actually runs the company. 2 insignificant, trivial, trifling, minor, minuscule, tiny, small, insubstantial, minimal, inconsiderable, token: We charge a nominal fee for the analysis if you refuse our recommendation.
NOMINEE|7|n. candidate, office-seeker, designee, selectee, appointee, assignee: We must choose a nominee to run in the next election.
NONPLUS|9|v. confound, perplex, puzzle, confuse, dismay, baffle, stop, check, stun, shock, dumbfound or dumfound, take aback, astonish, astound, US faze, Colloq bring up short, flummox, stump: She was nonplussed to learn that Simpson had been arrested.
NONSTOP|9|adj. 1 uninterrupted, continuous, unbroken, direct: Is this a non-stop flight to New York? 2 unending, endless, interminable, unceasing, ceaseless, continual, continuous, uninterrupted, unbroken, persistent, relentless, constant, unremitting, steady, round-the-clock, ongoing, continuing, unhesitating, unfaltering, tireless,; regular, habitual: I told my neighbour that his non-stop rock 'n' roll music was driving me mad. --adv. 3 unendingly, endlessly, interminably, unceasingly, ceaselessly, continually, continuously, uninterruptedly, persistently, relentlessly, constantly, unremittingly, steadily, round-the-clock, day in and day out, tirelessly; regularly, habitually: He continues to play his hi-fi non-stop.
NOTABLY|12|adv. 1 particularly, especially, markedly, noticeably, signally, distinctly, remarkably, unusually, uncommonly, outstandingly, conspicuously, clearly, obviously, evidently, manifestly, specifically, distinctly, curiously, oddly, uniquely, strangely, strikingly, shockingly, surprisingly, stunningly: In the temperate zones, the seasons vary notably in length. 2 meaningfully, significantly, importantly, prominently: The viruses changed in notably different ways.
NOTCHED|6|adj. serrate(d), sawtooth(ed), crenellate(d), crenate, serriform, pinked, scalloped, zigzag, toothed, dentate, denticulate(d), dentiform: The flower has notched yellow petals. The vase was decorated with a notched pattern.
NOTHING|2|n. 1 naught or nought, nothing at all or whatsoever, no thing, not anything, Taboo slang Brit bugger-all, (sweet) Fanny Adams or F.A., SFA: Nothing that you tell me can be held against you in court. You may think it important, but I tell you it is nothing. 2 cipher, zero, nobody, nonentity: If it weren't for her, he would be nothing. 3 trifle, bagatelle, Colloq peanuts: A million is nothing to him.
NOURISH|5|v. 1 feed, sustain, support, maintain, keep, provide for, care for, take care of, look after, nurture, nurse: The child seems to be thriving and well nourished. 2 foster, cherish, nurse, maintain, harbour, keep, nurture, sustain: Iago nourished a terrible hatred for Othello. 3 strengthen, fortify, encourage, promote, stimulate, cultivate, help, advance, aid: These malcontents continue to nourish trouble in the party ranks.
NOVELTY|13|n. 1 originality, newness, uniqueness, freshness, innovativeness: We are enthusiastic about the novelty of the new sales campaign. 2 gimmick, gimcrack, trifle, gewgaw, bauble, knick-knack, toy, trinket, ornament, plaything, Brummagem, kickshaw: New subscribers receive as a premium some novelty, like a ball-point pen or a cheap clock.
NUCLEUS|9|n. core, heart, centre, kernel, pith, focus, nub: We already have the nucleus of a very good team. The market square was the nucleus around which many towns were built.
NUPTIAL|9|adj. bridal, matrimonial, wedding, spousal, wedded, marital; connubial, conjugal, Literary hymeneal: The nuptial arrangements have been made.
OBESITY|12|n. corpulence, plumpness, tubbiness, chubbiness, grossness, embonpoint, rotundity, portliness, paunchiness, size, bulk, weight, avoirdupois: Risk factors with respect to heart disease include smoking, bad diet, obesity, and family history of heart disease.
OBLIQUE|7|adj. 1 slanting, slanted, sloping, aslant, inclined, diagonal, inclining, angled, angling, canted, canting, banked, banking, cambered, crooked, askew, divergent, diverging, tilted, atilt, tilting: The roof joins the wall at an oblique angle. 2 awry, devious, roundabout, indirect, circuitous, circumlocutionary, evasive, sly, sidelong, offhand, surreptitious, furtive, implied, clandestine, underhand(ed), deceitful, devious, deceptive, false: She made some oblique comments about the candidate's wife.
OBSCENE|7|adj. 1 inelegant, improper, rude, impure, unchaste, shameless, shameful, indecent, immodest, off colour, indecorous, indelicate, risqu÷, vulgar, immoral, degenerate, amoral, dissolute, broad, suggestive, erotic, sensual, ribald, debauched, wanton, loose, libertine, bawdy, blue, scabrous, coarse, dirty, filthy, smutty, pornographic, libidinous, lewd, licentious, lecherous, lustful, goatish, carnal, ruttish, lascivious, filthy, salacious, prurient, disgusting, offensive, repulsive, foul, abominable, vile, loathsome, gross, foul-mouthed, scurrilous, scatological, vile, Literary Cyprian, Paphian, Fescennine, thersitical: In the cinema business, 'adult' and 'obscene' seem to be synonyms. 2 evil, wicked, heinous, atrocious, awful, outrageous, repulsive, shocking, repellent, obnoxious, off-putting, objectionable, beastly, intolerable, insufferable, unpalatable, distasteful, nauseous, nauseating, sickening, execrable, despicable, nasty: The obscene monster dashed the brave warriors to the rocks far below.
OBSERVE|12|v. 1 obey, abide by, comply with, be heedful of, attend to, conform to, regard, keep, follow, adhere to, respect, pay attention to: We observed the prohibition against swimming. 2 watch, look at, examine, monitor, scrutinize, study, regard, view, inspect, pore over, contemplate, consider , Colloq check (out or up on), check over, size up, Slang case: The naturalists went to the Arctic to observe the polar bears. 3 see, mark, notice, look, perceive: Observe how swiftly the skin forms pustules when this substance is applied. 4 Sometimes, observe on or upon. comment (on or upon), remark (on or upon), mention, say, note, refer (to), make reference to, animadvert on or upon or to; state, declare: It is impolite to observe on others' manners. He couldn't help observing to his cell-mate how easy it would be to escape. 5 celebrate, keep, solemnize, respect, keep holy, mark, commemorate, memorialize, remember, recognize: We always observe the sabbath.
OBVIOUS|9|adj. clear, plain, apparent, patent, perceptible, evident, self-evident, clear-cut, manifest, palpable, (much) in evidence, conspicuous, open, visible, overt, ostensible, pronounced, prominent, glaring, undeniable, unconcealed, unhidden, unsubtle, distinct, simple, bald, bald-faced, straightforward, direct, self-explanatory, indisputable, unmistakable or unmistakeable: There are obvious flaws in the fabric. The reason you were refused seemed obvious to me.
OCEANIC|11|adj. marine, pelagic, thalassic; salt-water, deep-water, aquatic, maritime, sea, ocean: These creatures are chiefly oceanic, coming ashore only to breed.
OFFBEAT|7|adj. strange, eccentric, bizarre, weird, peculiar, odd, queer, unconventional, unorthodox, Bohemian, idiosyncratic, unusual, unexpected, outr÷, outlandish, deviant, novel, innovative, Colloq kinky, way-out, far-out, off-the-wall, freaky, weirdo: Jasper's offbeat, satirical humour has made him a popular comedian.
OFFENCE|7|n. 1 violation, breach, crime, felony, misdemeanour, infraction, transgression, trespass, wrong, wrongdoing, sin, peccadillo, misdeed, fault, infringement, malefaction; dereliction, lapse, slip, error: He was accused of offences against the rights of others. Some regard the splitting of an infinitive an offence against the Queen's English. 2 give offence. incur displeasure, create annoyance or irritation or resentment or pique, evoke indignation or anger; slight, injure, hurt, harm, offend, insult, outrage, Colloq put (someone) down: He denied that he meant to give offence in his criticism of the play. 3 take offence. take umbrage, feel displeasure or annoyance or resentment or pique or indignation, be angered or enraged: Why should you take offence at what a fool says?
OFFHAND|9|adj. 1 offhanded, casual, informal, nonchalant, cool, distant, aloof, easygoing, blas÷, unceremonious, relaxed, easy, smooth, unconcerned, insouciant, light-hearted, uninterested, superficial, cursory, cavalier, careless: His offhand reaction shows that he doesn't care as much about her as we thought. 2 curt, brusque, abrupt, perfunctory, ungracious, glib, smooth: When asked when he expected to pay, he gave an offhand reply. 3 extempore, impromptu, unpremeditated, unstudied, extemporaneous, informal, off the cuff, ad lib: She rose to make some offhand comments about the accomplishments of the guest of honour. --adv. 4 extempore, impromptu, extemporaneously, informally, off the cuff, ad lib, on the spur of the moment, at the drop of a hat: That was a pretty good speech considering it was made offhand. 5 casually, informally, incidentally, by the way, offhandedly, by the by, parenthetically, in passing, en passant, cursorily, superficially: Offhand, I'd say that the two of them deserve each other.
OFFICER|7|n. 1 (public) official, dignitary, office-holder, public servant, office-bearer, (political) appointee, (government) agent, bureaucrat, functionary, commissioner, administrator, manager, director; apparatchik: He was stopped by customs officers who demanded to search his baggage. The bailiff is an officer of the court. 2 policeman, policewoman, police officer, officer of the law, constable, Old-fashioned catchpole, US lawman, peace officer, G-man, T-Man, Colloq gendarme, Slang cop, copper, fuzz, US dick, narc, Brit Old Bill, tec: The officer standing at the door was there to serve a writ.
OMINOUS|6|adj. 1 foreboding, threatening, fateful, dark, black, gloomy, lowering or louring, menacing, sinister; unpropitious, unfavourable, ill-omened, ill-starred, unpromising, star-crossed, inauspicious: With ominous solemnity, the judge placed a black cloth square on his head before passing the death sentence. 2 minatory, warning, admonitory, cautionary: The whispering had taken on ominous overtones. 3 portentous, prophetic, oracular, vaticinal, predictive, prognostic, augural, mantic, sibyllic, meaningful, premonitory, foreshadowing, foretelling, foretokening, indicative: Virtually everything was regarded as ominous in ancient times.
ONGOING|5|adj. 1 continuing, continued, continuous, continual, ceaseless, unbroken, uninterrupted, constant, perpetual, non-stop, relentless, persistent, unending, endless, interminable, running: There has been an ongoing dispute with the museum over the authenticity of the sculpture. 2 developing, evolving, growing, successive, unfolding, progressing, progressive: Rather than come to a hasty decision, we decided to monitor ongoing developments.
OPACITY|10|n. 1 opaqueness, darkness, murkiness, dimness, obscurity, impermeability, impenetrability: The opacity of the lens increases automatically in the presence of sunlight. 2 obscurity, density, impenetrability, unintelligibility, indefiniteness, vagueness, reconditeness, abstruseness, ambiguity, equivocation, mystification: For centuries scientists were unable to penetrate the opacity of the question of what occurred when substances burned. 3 stupidity, dullness, denseness, thickness, obtuseness: A light finally dawned through the thick opacity of his brain.
OPENING|6|n. 1 break, breach, rent, rift, cleft, crack, crevice, fissure, cranny, chink, pit, gap, split, slit, slot, aperture, hole, orifice, separation: Flowers grew from openings in the wall. 2 opportunity, chance, occasion, toe-hold, foothold, Colloq break, toe or foot in the door, Brit look-in: I was waiting for an appropriate opening to make my presentation. 3 job, position, opportunity, vacancy: Is there likely to be an opening in the art department of your company? 4 beginning, commencement, start, birth, origin, outset, onset, inauguration, launch, send-off, initiation, presentation, debut; vernissage, US start-off, start-up: The opening of the autumn social season was marked by Malcolm's birthday party. Aren't you going to the opening at the museum tonight?
OPINION|9|n. 1 belief, judgement, thought, sentiment, (point of) view, viewpoint, conviction, way of thinking, perception, idea, impression, notion, conception, theory, id÷e reúu; mind: It is my opinion that sickness benefits ought to be increased. In her opinion all men are chauvinists. 2 evaluation, estimation, estimate, appraisal, appreciation, impression: Myra has a very low opinion of Ray's taste in architecture.
OPPOSED|6|adj. Often, opposed to. against, in opposition (to), opposing, in conflict (with), antipathetic, conflicting, contrary (to), at variance (with), antithetical (to), hostile (to), inimical (to), opposite (to), contrasting: Harvey is among those opposed to abortion. All those who are opposed to the motion raise your hands.
OPPRESS|3|v. 1 burden, afflict, trouble, weigh down, overload, encumber, wear (down), press, weary, overburden, overwhelm, Brit pressurize, US pressure: He was oppressed by the heavy burden of responsibility. 2 crush, repress, put down, suppress, subjugate, tyrannize (over), subdue, overpower, enslave, persecute, maltreat, abuse, harry, harass, trample underfoot, ride roughshod over: The Russian serfs had been oppressed for centuries before they finally rose up against tyranny.
OPTIMUM|13|n. 1 best, finest, most favourable, ideal, perfection, model, paragon, exemplar: In all work, the optimum is difficult to achieve. --adj. 2 best, finest, most favourable, ideal, perfect, choicest, optimal, first-rate, first-class, sterling, prime, capital, excellent, exceptional, superlative, extraordinary, unique, peerless, unequalled, unexcelled, unsurpassed: These instruments keep the chamber at the optimum temperature. After months of training, Guy is in optimum condition to win the marathon.
ORATION|7|n. speech, declaration, address, lecture, recitation, discourse, monologue, declamation; valedictory, eulogy, homily, panegyric; Colloq spiel: Bentley delivered a long oration on the future of the economy.
ORATORY|10|n. public speaking, speech-making, eloquence, rhetoric, way with words, command of the language, fluency, glibness, grandiloquence, magniloquence, declamation; elocution, diction, enunciation, articulation, address; Colloq gift of the gab: The crowds who thronged to hear Churchill's oratory were seldom disappointed.
ORDERLY|11|adj. 1 in (good) order, (well-)organized, neat, shipshape, tidy, arranged, methodical, systematic, systematized or systemized, harmonious, symmetrical, regular, uniform: Before you leave, make sure that your room is orderly. 2 well-behaved, disciplined, decorous, law-abiding, well-mannered, peaceable, tranquil, mannerly, polite, courteous, civil, civilized, non-violent: Everyone left the burning theatre in an orderly fashion. --n. 3 assistant, adjutant, attendant, messenger; menial, servant; nurse's aide; Brit military batman; US candystriper; Slang US and Canadian gofer: An orderly arrived with dispatches from the general. She has a job as a hospital orderly.
ORGANIC|10|adj. 1 living, natural, biological, biotic, animate, breathing: Though coal may seem to be a mineral, it is organic, for it was formed from plants. 2 basic, elementary, essential, innate, inborn, natural, native, ingrained, primary, fundamental, visceral, constitutional, inherent, structural, integral: The organic differences between the styles of writing are obvious. 3 organized, systematic, coherent, coordinated, integrated, structured, methodical, orderly, consistent: The various elements of the painting blend into an organic whole.
OUTCAST|9|n. pariah, exile, reject, persona non grata, leper, untouchable, expatriate, refugee, displaced person, DP, evacuee: In 1946, Europe swarmed with outcasts, the detritus of the war.
OUTCOME|11|n. result, consequence, end (result or product), after-effect, effect, upshot, sequel, development, outgrowth, aftermath, wake, follow-up, Medicine sequela (usually pl. sequelae), Colloq pay-off, bottom line: One outcome of the new safety regulations will be higher fares. We eagerly awaited the outcome of the race.
OUTDOOR|6|adj. outside, out of doors, alfresco, open-air: Both of them enjoy outdoor activities like hiking and bicycling.
OUTLAST|7|v. survive, outlive; outwear; weather: Considering her condition, it seems doubtful that she will outlast her husband.
OUTLINE|7|n. 1 profile, silhouette, contour, periphery, boundary, footprint: This outline is of the desk area occupied by the keyboard and monitor. 2 pr÷cis, synopsis, r÷sum÷, summary, digest, abstract, conspectus, survey, overview, run-down, recapitulation, review, (thumbnail) sketch, skeleton, (overall) plan, layout, framework, draft, scenario: O'Brien presented an outline of what his company planned to do after the take-over. --v. 3 trace, draft, sketch, rough out, profile, block (out), plan (out), lay out, define, delineate: None of the divers was particularly enthusiastic about the procedure outlined for bringing up the wreckage.
OUTLOOK|9|n. 1 view, position, point of view, viewpoint, prospect, perspective, slant, angle, standpoint, attitude, opinion: His outlook on the situation in the Middle East is bound to be somewhat biased. 2 prospect, forecast, expectation(s): What is the outlook for the value of the pound sterling over the next year?
OUTSIDE|8|n. 1 exterior, face, facing, shell, skin, case, casing, surface, front; faúade: What is that on the outside of the box? The outside of the house is painted white. 2 aspect, appearance, look, demeanour, face, front, faúade, mien, mask, disguise, false front, pretence: One cannot tell what people are really like from the outside they present to the world. 3 extreme, limit, most, maximum, utmost, best, worst, longest: At the outside, you shouldn't pay more than half your income for housing. I'll wait for her for an hour at the outside. 4 the world at large: We had to bring in someone from the outside to complete the work. --adj. 5 exterior, external, out of doors, outdoor: They have added an outside swimming-pool to the house. 6 maximum, maximal, highest, best, worst, greatest, most, largest, longest, furthest or farthest: What was their outside estimate for replacing the roof? The outside time for driving here from London is about an hour. 7 private, home, cottage, secondary, peripheral, independent, freelance: Her outside job pays more than her regular work. 8 unlikely, remote, faint, Colloq slim: He has an outside chance of beating the world record. 9 foreign, alien, outward; unconnected, excluded, uninvolved, disinvolved, independent, separate, different: I'm worried that Phil might be subject to outside influences. An outside contractor is doing the work. --adv. 10 outdoors, out of doors: Perhaps you'd like to step outside to discuss the matter further?
OUTWARD|11|adj. external, exterior, outer, outside, outlying, manifest, obvious, evident, apparent, visible, observable; superficial, surface, extrinsic, skin-deep, shallow, pretended, false, ostensible, formal, physical, bodily, fleshly, carnal, mundane, worldly, secular, temporal, terrestrial, material, non-spiritual: She gave every outward sign of being the bereaved widow. Whatever outward trappings money may buy, A man's true wealth lies deep inside.
OVATION|10|n. applause, acclamation, acclaim, plaudits, cheers, cheering, clapping, laudation, praise, kudos, Colloq (big) hand: At the conclusion of the concerto, the pianist was given a standing ovation.
OVERAWE|13|v. overwhelm, intimidate, cow, daunt, awe, bully, hector, browbeat, dominate, domineer, frighten, scare, terrify, disconcert, discomfit, upset, abash: The children were overawed by their father's slightest sign of displeasure.
OVERDUE|11|adj. late, tardy, behindhand, behind, unpunctual, belated, US past due: As it is now December, payment is long overdue. I've got an overdue library book to return.
OVEREAT|10|v. gorge, binge, gormandize, stuff oneself, overindulge, guzzle, feast, wolf down, overfeed, do the gavage, Colloq pack away, Brit pig, US pig out: People not only overeat but they tend to eat the wrong foods.
OVERRUN|8|v. invade, defeat, attack, ravage, destroy, overwhelm, conquer, harry, vandalize, plunder, maraud, scourge, despoil, sack, strip, pillage, storm, Colloq blitz: Within a week the armies had overrun the country and captured the capital city.
OVERSEE|8|v. direct, manage, watch (over), keep an eye on, administer, superintend, run, supervise, operate, manipulate, handle, control: We employed Gertrude to oversee our offices in Frankfurt.
PACKAGE|8|n. 1 packet, parcel, box, container, case, carton, bundle: I am donating a package of clothing to the relief fund. 2 combination, unit, package deal: Included in the package from the car dealer are several luxury features. --v. 3 wrap, pack, containerize, carton, case, encase, enclose, include; combine, unite, coupled, incorporate: More and more merchandise comes packaged in plastic these days. A special sponge is packaged with the cleaning liquid.
PAINFUL|12|adj. 1 hurting, grievous, hurtful, sore, distressing, distressful, excruciating, torturous, agonizing, smarting, stinging, aching, achy, throbbing, burning, piercing, stabbing, sharp, tender, sensitive, raw, bitter, Formal nociceptive: The bullet caused a painful wound in the knee. Mother's arthritis can be quite painful at times. 2 vexing, vexatious, annoying, harassing, irritating, irksome, aggravating, galling, exasperating, unpleasant, afflictive, harrowing, worrisome, worrying, troubling, disquieting, disturbing, distressing: Fighting in the front lines was a painful experience for Rupert. 3 painstaking, laborious, careful, rigorous, arduous, assiduous, sedulous, diligent, earnest, conscientious, meticulous, scrupulous, detailed, thorough, thoroughgoing, exacting, demanding: A great deal of painful research went into discovering the cause of yellow fever.
PANACHE|7|n. flourish, dash, ÷lan, ÷clat, chic, sophistication, savoir faire, savoir vivre, flamboyance, verve, style, cultivation, (good) taste, flair, smartness, boldness, self-assurance, swagger, vigour, liveliness, spirit, brio, gusto, zest, animation, enthusiasm, energy: Whatever needs to be done, you can count on Irena to carry it off with panache.
PARADOX|17|n. contradiction, self-contradiction, incongruity, inconsistency, absurdity, ambiguity, enigma, puzzle, mystery, quandary, problem, dilemma: Can you explain away Zeno's paradox of Achilles and the tortoise? The paradox was that although it was Edward's fifth birthday, he was 20 years old.
PARAGON|10|n. epitome, archetype, model, prototype, quintessence, pattern, standard, exemplar, ideal, beau id÷al, criterion: He had previously regarded Michael as a paragon of virtue and was deeply shocked by the revelations.
PARLOUR|9|n. living-room, Old-fashioned or Brit drawing-room, Chiefly Brit sitting-room, reception (room), lounge: She invited us into the parlour where tea was laid out.
PASSAGE|8|n. 1 movement, moving, going, transition, transit, traversal, traverse, progress, crossing, passing: The queen's passage through the town was attended by much jubilation. We observed the passage of Mercury across the sun's disc. 2 extract, excerpt, selection, section, part, portion, text, paragraph, canto, stanza, verse, line, sentence, phrase, citation, quotation: I recognize this passage from The Faerie Queene . 3 way, route, avenue, course, channel; road, thoroughfare: Amundsen found a navigable passage between the Atlantic and Pacific across North America. 4 corridor, hall, passageway, hallway, vestibule, lobby, foyer: As I stepped into the passage outside my room I heard a door slam. 5 change, mutation, shift, conversion, progression, passing: In sublimation, the passage is directly between the solid and gaseous or vaporous states, without an intermediate liquid stage. 6 passing, elapse, progress, progression, flow, march, advance: She may become more tractable with the passage of time. 7 voyage, trip, journey, cruise, crossing, sail, run, travel, travelling; Brit accommodation or US accommodations, arrangement(s), facilities: In 1942 the trans-Atlantic passage was fraught with danger. The refugees were guaranteed safe passage to the border. We have been unable to book a passage to Majorca for tomorrow. 8 safe conduct, permission, privilege, liberty, freedom, visa, authorization, allowance: Our troops were denied passage through Nepal. 9 enactment, ratification, sanction, approval, acceptance, passing, adoption, endorsement, endorsing, legitimatization or legitimization, legalization, legislation, constitutionalization, ordainment: It appears that there is enough support to ensure passage of the bill. 10 traffic, trafficking, dealing, shipment, shipping, commerce, trade, exchange, transaction: Representatives of several governments discussed putting a halt to the passage of narcotics from Colombia. 11 aperture, hole, orifice, opening; entry, access, inlet; exit...
PASSION|7|n. 1 Often, passions. ardour, ardency, eagerness, intensity, fervour, fervency, fervidness, zeal, zealousness, avidity, avidness, zest, zestfulness, vivacity, vivaciousness, gusto, verve, emotion, feeling, animation, spirit, spiritedness, vigour, enthusiasm, eagerness; zealotry, fanaticism, feverishness: The passions of the mob are uncontrollable. Passion and prejudice govern the world. Passions ran high at the political convention. 2 fit, outburst, frenzy, paroxysm, seizure, spasm, convulsion, eruption, whirlwind, tempest, storm, ferment, fury, furore or US furor: Henry fell on his knees in a passion of grief. 3 infatuation, mania, obsession, craze, craving, lust, (unquenchable) thirst, (insatiable) hunger, itch, yearning, longing, desire, concupiscence, love, affection, enthusiasm, compulsion, fondness, predilection, keenness, fancy, fascination, partiality, liking, interest, weakness, Colloq yen: Would the world be a better place if the passion for spiritual values were as great as for material things? She has a passion for chocolates. 4 love, heart's desire, beloved, idol, hero or heroine, obsession, Colloq heartthrob, dream-girl or dream-boy: He may not look much to you but he is the passion of every teenage girl. 5 Usually, Passion. pain, suffering, agony, martyrdom: Christ underwent his Passion at Calvary.
PASSIVE|10|adj. 1 inactive, non-aggressive, inert, motionless, unresponsive, quiet, calm, tranquil, serene, placid, still, idle, unmoving, unmoved, impassive, untouched, cool, indifferent, phlegmatic, uninterested, uninvolved, dispassionate, apathetic, lifeless, listless, quiescent, unperturbed, unaffected, imperturbable, unshaken, Colloq laid-back, out of it: The comic was unable to get a reaction from the passive audience. 2 submissive, repressed, deferential, yielding, compliant, complaisant, receptive, flexible, malleable, pliable, tractable, docile, subdued, sheepish, ovine, lamblike, cow-like, bovine, tame, gentle, meek, patient, unresisting, unassertive, forbearing, tolerant, resigned, long-suffering, Colloq US excuse-me-for-living: People tend to bully those of a more passive nature. 3 unexpressed, tacit, unrevealed, undisclosed, implicit, unasserted: We can no longer take a passive position regarding crime. Your passive support, while welcome, is not as effective as active campaigning.
PATIENT|9|adj. 1 resigned, submissive, stoical, long-suffering, compliant, acquiescent, passive, self-possessed, philosophical, serene, unaggressive: The staff who handle complaints must be extremely patient. 2 diligent, dogged, tenacious, persistent, assiduous, sedulous, steadfast, staunch, perseverant, unwavering, unswerving, constant, unfaltering, unfailing, untiring, tireless, indefatigable, pertinacious, determined, resolved, resolute, firm, unyielding: Be patient, and don't do anything rash. 3 forbearing, tolerant, forgiving, lenient, accommodating: We have been patient long enough and must now put a stop to the vandalism. --n. 4 invalid, sufferer, case, valetudinarian: Doctors were called in to treat patients who developed the symptoms.
PATRIOT|9|n. nationalist, loyalist; flag-waver, jingo, jingoist, chauvinist: She was among the patriots ready to do battle for their country.
PAYABLE|9|adj. due, owed, owing, outstanding, unpaid, receivable, mature: This bill is payable at the end of the month.
PEEVISH|8|adj. irritable, testy, touchy, fretful, ill-humoured, waspish, petulant, crabbed, churlish, querulous, short-tempered, ill-natured, tetchy, cross, bad-tempered, ill-tempered, fault-finding, captious, carping, cavilling, crusty, curmudgeonly, crotchety, cantankerous, grumpy or grumpish, pettish, acrimonious, splenetic, Colloq bilious, US and Canadian and Irish cranky: He's very peevish today, so don't get on his wrong side.
PENANCE|11|n. 1 punishment, penalty, reparation, amends, atonement, self-punishment, self-mortification, regret, repentance, contrition, suffering, penitence: A year of public service was fair penance for the offence. 2 do penance. pay, suffer, make amends or reparation(s), atone, wear sackcloth and ashes or a hair-shirt: She has done penance enough for her crime.
PENDANT|10|n. ornament, tassel, lavaliere or lavaliëre, medallion, locket, necklace, riviëre, ear-drop, tear-drop, drop, Old-fashioned carcanet: I recognized the pendant she wore at her neck as my mother's.
PENDING|7|prep. 1 awaiting, waiting (for), depending on, till, until, 'til, till such time as; while, during: Pending the outcome of the trial, he was remanded in custody. --adj. 2 unsettled, undetermined, undecided, unconfirmed, unfinished, inconclusive, up in the air, hanging fire, in the balance, in abeyance; forthcoming, imminent, impending, in the offing, Colloq US in a holding pattern, on hold: The pending negotiations on the rent will determine whether we stay or move house. While the matter is pending, we can do nothing.
PENNANT|7|n. flag, banner, pennon, streamer, banderole, gonfalon, ensign, colours, standard, labarum, Chiefly nautical jack, Nautical and yachting burgee, Technical vexillum: We saw from her pennant that she was a Spanish frigate.
PENSION|9|n. 1 benefit, allowance, annuity, subsistence, superannuation, allotment, old-age pension, US social security, Colloq golden handshake: She finds that her pension is not enough to live on. --v. 2 Usually, pension off. (cause to) retire, superannuate; dismiss; Colloq shelve, put out to pasture: The company cut back on staff by pensioning off everyone over 60.
PENSIVE|12|adj. thoughtful, meditative, musing, in a brown study, cogitative, contemplative, reflective, preoccupied, ruminative, wistful, day-dreaming, in a trance, in a reverie, brooding, sober, serious, grave: I found the professor in a pensive mood, staring out the window.
PERFECT|14|adj. 1 complete, absolute, finished, (fully) realized, fulfilled, consummate, pure, entire, whole, perfected, best, ideal: Many have called the building a perfect example of the Palladian style. 2 sublime, ideal, superb, supreme, superlative, best, flawless, faultless, pre-eminent, excellent, exquisite, unexcelled, unrivalled, unequalled, unmatched, matchless, incomparable, nonpareil, peerless, inimitable: At her throat she wore the most perfect emerald I had ever seen. 3 blameless, righteous, holy, faultless, flawless, spotless, immaculate: Nobody's perfect. 4 fitting, appropriate, (just) right, apt, suitable, correct, proper, made-to-order, best, Brit spot on: Arthur would be perfect for the role of Quasimodo. 5 precise, exact, accurate, correct, unerring, true, authentic, lifelike, right on, excellent, superlative, superb, reliable, Brit spot on: These copies are perfect replicas of the original. 6 utter, absolute, complete, mere, thorough, out-and-out, through-and-through; 24-carat, categorical, unqualified, unalloyed, unmitigated: We were perfect strangers at the time. Once again, he's shown himself to be a perfect idiot. 7 expert, proficient, accomplished, experienced, practised, skilful, skilled, gifted, talented, adept, deft, adroit, polished, professional, masterly, masterful: The admirable Crichton was the perfect butler. --v. 8 complete, finish, realize, fulfil, consummate, accomplish, achieve, effect, execute, carry out or through, bring (to perfection): The design of the bicycle was not to be perfected for several years. 9 rectify, correct, emend, (put or set) right, improve, refine, polish, cultivate, better, ameliorate: Viniculture has been perfected in the Bordeaux region of France.
PERFIDY|16|n. perfidiousness, treachery, deceit, traitorousness, treason, disloyalty, faithlessness, falseness, falsity, unfaithfulness, infidelity, insidiousness, hypocrisy, betrayal: The name of Judas is a byword for perfidy.
PERFORM|14|v. 1 execute, complete, bring off or about, accomplish, effect, carry out, discharge, dispatch, conduct, carry on, do, fulfil, Colloq pull off, knock off, polish off; put up or shut up: Postmen perform their duties despite hazards such as vicious dogs. 2 do, act, behave, operate, function, run, work, go, respond: How does your new car perform? 3 present, stage, produce, put on, mount, do; act, depict, take, play, appear as: The repertory group performs six shows weekly. He is performing the role of Scrooge.
PERFUME|14|n. 1 essence, extract, parfum, eau-de-Cologne, toilet water, scent, fragrance; aroma, odour, smell, bouquet, nose: What is that wonderful perfume you're wearing? The perfume of the wine wafted over to me. --v. 2 scent: Orange blossoms perfumed the air.
PERHAPS|9|adv. maybe, possibly, it is possible that, conceivably, as the case may be, it may be, Archaic or literary perchance, peradventure, Archaic or dialect mayhap: Perhaps she'll be on the next train.
PERJURY|19|n. lying, mendacity, mendaciousness, forswearing, prevarication, bearing false witness: The defendant was acquitted and the prosecution witnesses charged with perjury.
PERPLEX|18|v. confuse, bewilder, puzzle, mystify, distract, baffle, befuddle, confound, muddle, disconcert, stump, nonplus, stymie, stupefy, stun, daze, dumbfound or dumfound, flabbergast, Colloq bamboozle, hornswoggle, Chiefly US and Canadian discombobulate, throw for a loop: The more I tried to understand bathymetric semiotics, the more perplexed I became. Anne-Marie's reticence perplexed us all.
PERTURB|11|v. upset, disturb, fluster, ruffle, unsettle, disconcert, make uneasy, discomfit, vex, worry, agitate, shake up, alarm, disquiet, confuse, discompose, unnerve, addle, disorganize: He became quite perturbed when the police asked him to help with their inquiries.
PERVERT|12|v. 1 deflect, divert, sidetrack, turn aside or away, subvert, misdirect, distort, twist, abuse, falsify, misapply, misconstrue, misrepresent, corrupt: By withholding evidence, you have perverted the course of justice. 2 seduce, lead astray, debauch, degrade, corrupt, demoralize, subvert: He was accused of perverting young girls. 3 deviant, degenerate, debauchee, US deviate, Colloq weirdo: I worry about your being out late, when there are so many perverts about.
PHANTOM|14|n. 1 apparition, spectre, ghost, spirit, phantasm, shade, wraith, revenant, vision, Formal eidolon, phantasma, Colloq spook: The so-called phantom of the opera turned out to be a real person. 2 figment (of the imagination), illusion, delusion, chimera or chimaera, hallucination, fancy, mirage: She was a phantom of delight When first she gleamed upon my sight.
PILGRIM|12|n. hajji or hadji or haji, Medieval history palmer; crusader: The pilgrims visited holy places in and near Jerusalem.
PIONEER|7|n. 1 pathfinder, frontiersman, frontierswoman, trail-blazer, explorer, colonist, (early) settler; ground-breaker, forerunner, precursor, predecessor, innovator, leader, trend-setter, pacemaker, pace-setter: The pioneers who explored and settled the American west were daring men and women. Marconi was a pioneer in the development of radio. --v. 2 create, originate, invent, initiate, take the first step, introduce, institute, actuate, trigger, set off, inaugurate, start, begin, launch, establish, found, set up, develop, lay the groundwork or foundation, set or put in motion, take the lead, lead or show the way, blaze the trail, be a prime mover, open up, Colloq kick off, get the ball rolling: Our company has pioneered systems for automatic typesetting.
PITCHED|8|adj. organized, planned, deliberate, coordinated, arranged, systematized: The two armies fought a pitched battle on the plain.
PITIFUL|12|adj. 1 See piteous, above. 2 small, little, insignificant, trifling, unimportant, beggarly, sorry, mean, contemptible: Does Hodges seriously expect us to praise him for that pitiful contribution of his?
PIVOTAL|12|adj. critical, central, focal, crucial, significant, important, essential, vital, pressing, urgent, radical: The attitude of the judge is pivotal in the jury's decision.
PLATEAU|9|n. 1 tableland, upland, highland, mesa: We climbed till we reached a grassy plateau. 2 level, lull, pause, levelling off: At 39, Julia seemed to have reached a plateau in her career.
PLATOON|7|n. company, squad, squadron, group, patrol, team, cadre, body, formation, unit, Colloq outfit: A platoon of soldiers was marched to the barracks in close-order drill.
PLAYBOY|17|n. man about town, rou÷, rake, debauchee, gay dog, womanizer, Don Juan, Casanova, Lothario, Romeo, Colloq wolf, lady-killer: He fancies himself as a playboy, but no women seem to agree.
PLAYFUL|15|adj. 1 (high-)spirited, cheerful, frisky, frolicsome, kittenish, sprightly, fun-loving, sportive, coltish, mischievous, puckish, impish, elfish, devilish: The cat didn't mean to scratch you, she was just being playful. 2 joking, facetious, teasing, roguish, waggish, jesting, humorous, tongue-in-cheek: Cleo's in a playful mood today, isn't she?
PLUMMET|7|v. See plunge, 1, below.
PLUNDER|10|v. 1 pillage, loot, rob, ravage, ransack, rifle, despoil, spoil, vandalize, sack, strip, maraud, devastate, desolate, lay waste: The attacking army plundered the villages. 2 prey on or upon, pirate, capture, seize: The buccaneers plunder the Spanish treasure ships on the high seas. --n. 3 pillage, looting, robbery, depredation, rapine, despoliation, spoliation, vandalization, sack, vandalism, vandalizing, sacking: It is said that the plunder of Rome took no more than a fortnight. 4 booty, loot, spoils, prizes, Slang boodle: The police displayed an Aladdin's cave of plunder recovered from the thieves.
POFACED|15|adj. stern-visaged, austere, dour, disapproving, frowning, grave, saturnine, solemn, sombre, humourless, grim, forbidding, severe, strait-laced, uncompromising, puritanical, prim, prudish, gruff, bluff, curmudgeonly: Despite having a po-faced approach to his work, William has a keen sense of humour when off duty.
POLITIC|11|adj. 1 ingenious, shrewd, crafty, canny, cunning, designing, scheming, clever, wily, foxy, tricky, artful, Macchiavellian, evasive, shifty, Colloq cagey: Daniel is politic enough to know how to manoeuvre situations to his benefit. 2 tactful, diplomatic, discreet, prudent, judicious, wise, sage, sagacious, sensible, intelligent, percipient, discriminating, far-sighted, expedient, perceptive: It was politic of the winner to share the prize with those who had helped him most.
POMPOUS|10|adj. 1 vain, vainglorious, proud, arrogant, pretentious, ostentatious, showy, grandiose, haughty, overbearing, conceited, egotistical, self-important, boastful, braggart, inflated, snobbish, magisterial, imperious, pontifical, affected, exhibitionist, Colloq uppity, highfalutin or hifalutin, hoity-toity, high-hat, Slang snooty, snotty: Don't you despise the pompous way Marshall struts about in that ridiculous uniform? 2 bombastic, flowery, grandiloquent, pedantic, stuffy, fustian, orotund, ornate, embroidered, flatulent, windy, turgid, inflated, high-flown, euphuistic: He's always making long-winded, pompous speeches because he loves the sound of his own voice.
POPULAR|11|adj. 1 favourite, favoured, in favour, accepted, well-received, approved, (well-)liked, fashionable, in fashion, stylish, in vogue, celebrated, renowned, acclaimed, famous, in demand, sought-after, all the rage, Colloq trendy, in, hot: You would become a millionaire overnight if you could accurately predict the popular music of the coming year. 2 conventional, stock, commonplace, public, normal, standard, general, universal, average, everyday, ordinary, routine, common, habitual, prevalent, current, prevailing, dominant, predominant, predominating, customary: His films cater to popular tastes in science fiction. 3 lay, non-professional, amateur, understandable, accessible, popularized, simplified: He presents a popular astronomy programme on TV.
PORTICO|11|n. porch, veranda or verandah, gallery, colonnade, galilee: At the front of the mansion, six corinthian pillars support a wide portico.
PORTION|9|n. 1 segment, part, section, division, subdivision, parcel, piece, hunk, chunk, lump, wedge, slice, sliver, fraction, fragment, bit, morsel, scrap: A portion of the masonry fell into the street in the earthquake. 2 share, part, allotment, quota, ration, apportionment, allowance, allocation, assignment, percentage, measure, division, quantity: The size of an investor's portion depends on the amount invested. 3 helping, serving; ration, plate, platter: He complained that the portions in nouvelle cuisine are too small. --v. 4 Often, portion out. apportion, share out, allocate, ration, allot, partition, assign, consign, dole out, deal (out), parcel out, distribute, administer, dispense, disperse, divide, split up, carve up, cut up, break up, section, Colloq divvy up: The conquered territories were then portioned out among the victors.
PORTRAY|12|v. 1 represent, picture, show, depict, paint, render, characterize, describe, delineate: She is portrayed wearing the Castelli tiara. Why must I always be portrayed as the villain? 2 act or play (the part or role of), take the part or role of, represent, pose as, impersonate: She portrays an aged crone who regains her youth in the last act.
POSSESS|5|v. 1 be possessed or in possession of, have, own, enjoy, be blessed or endowed with: In the 19th century, the family possessed great wealth. 2 have, be born or gifted or endowed with, contain, embody, embrace, include: He possesses a talent to amuse people. Man does not possess as keen a sense of smell as many animals. 3 dominate, control, govern, consume, take control of, preoccupy, obsess; charm, captivate, enchant, cast a spell over, bewitch, enthral: What possessed her to think that I could help? He behaves as if he is possessed by the devil. 4 be possessed with or of. have, be held or influenced or dominated by, be imbued or inspired or permeated or affected with: She became possessed with the notion that she could sing. Fiona believes herself the only person possessed of reason. 5 possess oneself of. acquire, achieve, get, come by, gain, come into, win, obtain, procure, secure, take, seize, take or gain possession of: Kevin has possessed himself of the only comfortable bed in the place.
PRECEDE|12|v. come or go or proceed before or first, go ahead or in advance (of), lead (the way), pave the way (for), herald, usher in, introduce, antecede; foreshadow, antedate, predate: His wife preceded him into the room. The Decameron preceded The Canterbury Tales by about fifty years.
PRECEPT|13|n. 1 rule, guide, principle, unwritten law, canon, guideline, dictate, code, injunction, law, commandment, instruction, injunction, directive, prescription, mandate, charge; statute, regulation, edict, ukase, decree, order, fiat, ordinance: The Ten Commandments provide basic precepts of moral behaviour. 2 maxim, proverb, axiom, motto, slogan, saying, byword, aphorism, apophthegm or apothegm: Does anyone follow the precepts set forth in Scripture?
PRECISE|7|adj. 1 correct, exact, definite, well-defined, explicit, word-for-word, verbatim, literal, letter-for-letter, literatim, faithful, specific, unambiguous, unequivocal, strict, authentic, perfect, true, veracious, truthful, unerring, error-free, accurate: Errors show that medieval scribes did not always succeed in making precise copies. 2 strict, meticulous, scrupulous, careful, conscientious, exact, unconditional, rigorous, rigid, puritanical, unbending, inflexible, unyielding, demanding, severe, prim, absolute: He has been very precise about dates and facts. Margaret is precise in insisting on obedience to her orders. 3 fastidious, particular, finicky, finical, fussy, meticulous, scrupulous, careful, conscientious, nice, exacting, critical, demanding: Painting miniatures is very precise work. 4 exact, very: This is the precise spot where I found the body.
PREEMPT|11|v. appropriate, usurp, arrogate, take over, assume, take possession of, seize, acquire, take, possess, expropriate: All the seats on the committee had been pre-empted by the ruling faction.
PREMIER|11|n. 1 prime minister, PM, head of state, chief executive, president, chancellor: The premiers of the Commonwealth met at Kuala Lumpur in 1989. --adj. 2 first, prime, primary, chief, principal, head, main, foremost, top-ranking, highest-ranking, ranking, leading, top, pre-eminent: He is the premier expert in his field.
PREMIRE|11|n. 1 premiere, first night, opening (night), debut: The premiëre of Aìda was at the opening of the Suez Canal. --v. 2 open, debut: The film will premiëre at the Festival Cinema tomorrow. --adj. 3 opening, debut, first, original, initial: The premiëre West-End performance is scheduled for May after a provincial tour.
PREMISE|11|n. 1 premiss, assumption, proposition, postulate, hypothesis, conjecture, assertion, supposition, thesis, presupposition, proposal, theorem, surmise, basis, ground: He started out with the premise that time had a beginning and will have an end. --v. 2 assume, propose, postulate, hypothesize, hypothecate, conjecture, posit, assert, suppose, presuppose, theorize, surmise, put or set forth, predicate, argue: If you accept what Einstein premised in the Special Theory of Relativity, then you accept that space is curved.
PREMIUM|13|n. 1 bonus, extra, dividend, prize, award, reward, perquisite: In our slimming competition, a premium will be paid for each pound that you lose beyond five. 2 incentive, inducement, stimulus, incitement, lure, bait, spur, goad, reward, Colloq come-on, Slang US and Canadian freebie: Many Building Societies offer premiums to first-time buyers. 3 value, importance, regard, stock, store, appreciation: We place a premium on the way our staff treat customers. 4 at a premium. a scarce, rare, scant, scanty, sparse, hard to come by, in short supply, Colloq scarce as hen's teeth, Chiefly Brit thin on the ground: Proficient, literate, experienced editors are at a premium these days. b costly, expensive, dear, high-priced, Colloq steep, stiff: The convertible model of this car is at a premium.
PREPARE|11|v. 1 (get or make) ready, prime, arrange, (put in) order, organize, provide for, make provision(s) for, lay the groundwork (for), (make) fit, fit (out), equip, outfit, adapt: Have you prepared adequately for the meeting? We prepared the house to receive guests. 2 train, (get or make) ready, study, practise, Colloq cram, Brit swot, get up: He is preparing to take an exam. 3 train, educate, teach, (get or make) ready, groom, brief, develop: Her mother is preparing her for the next Olympics. 4 cook (up), make, do, Colloq whip up, US and Canadian fix: I shall prepare dinner for eight o'clock. 5 manufacture, fabricate, produce, make, put out, build, construct, assemble, put together, turn out, fashion, forge, mould: Our company prepares components for the printing industry. 6 brace, strengthen, steel, fortify, ready: When I saw the doctor's face, I prepared myself for bad news. 7 process, produce, make, treat, change, modify, transform: This fabric has been specially prepared to repel stains.
PRESIDE|10|v. supervise, run, oversee, direct, operate, lead, head (up), govern, rule, manage, handle, control, direct, chair, administer, administrate, regulate, officiate: Melissa presides over the meetings of the board.
PRETEND|10|v. 1 feign, profess, represent, allege, make believe, make out: Let's pretend that we are royalty. Often, he pretends to be me. 2 try, attempt, endeavour, venture, presume, undertake: I could not pretend to guess the number of people attending last night's meeting. 3 make believe, act or play, play-act, fake, feign, put on an act, dissemble, sham, sail under false colours: Is she serious about wanting you to leave or was she just pretending?
PRETEXT|16|n. 1 pretence, excuse, camouflage, guise, disguise, cover, veil, cloak, colour: They carried on the surveillance under pretext of working on the sewer. 2 ruse, red herring, cover (story), rationale, pretence, rationalization, explanation: What pretext did the thief use that made you let him in?
PREVENT|12|v. anticipate, preclude, obviate, forestall, avert, avoid, prohibit, ban, bar, forbid, interdict, taboo, enjoin, proscribe, foil, frustrate, obstruct, debar, intercept, nip in the bud, abort, thwart, check, block, ward or fend or stave off, baffle, balk or baulk, (put a) stop (to), arrest, (bring to a) halt, hinder, impede, curb, restrain, hamper, inhibit, delay, retard, slow, mitigate, control: Some diseases can be prevented by inoculation or vaccination. There is nothing to prevent us from leaving. The barrier was built to prevent flooding.
PREVIEW|15|n. advance showing, private showing; opening, vernissage: We saw the Picasso exhibition at a preview held for friends of the gallery.
PRICKLE|7|n. 1 spine, bristle, barb, thorn, bur, needle, tine, spike, spur, prong: The prickles make the brambles cling to your clothes. 2 pricking, prickliness, itch, itchiness, sting, tingling, tingle: I felt the prickle of the rough wool against my skin. --v. 3 tingle, sting, itch, smart: Sloane complained that the beard he had to grow for the pirate role made his face prickle. 4 stick, jab, prick: The child's hands had been prickled by the chestnuts.
PRICKLY|10|adj. 1 bristly, thorny, brambly, spiny, barbed, briery, spinous, spiky, Technical setaceous, setose, acanthoid, aciculate, aculeate, muricate, spiculate: Dad's face is all prickly when he hasn't shaved. 2 tingling, stinging, pricking, prickling, itchy, crawly, crawling: The squeak of the chalk on the blackboard gives me a prickly feeling. 3 touchy, irritable, petulant, cantankerous, testy, waspish, bad-tempered, peevish, fractious, short-tempered, curmudgeonly, Colloq cranky: Moira gets a bit prickly if you ask her why she married Noel. 4 nettlesome, thorny, ticklish, touchy, troublesome, intricate, complicated, complex, knotty, hard, difficult, contentious: The prickly problem of how to pay for the university must still be faced.
PRIMARY|14|adj. 1 first, prime, principal, chief, main, leading, pre-eminent, cardinal, fundamental, basic, essential, predominant, elementary, elemental, underlying: The primary reason I want to see you is to discuss your future with the company. The primary meaning of a word is given first. 2 earliest, first, original, initial, primitive, primeval, primordial, embryonic, germinal, beginning, ultimate: The primary source of life was possibly a sort of soup containing proteins and other molecules. 3 firsthand, direct, immediate: Bauxite is the primary source of aluminium ore. 4 elementary, basic, rudimentary, fundamental: One of the primary lessons we are taught is consideration for others. 5 unmixed, unadulterated, pure, simple, rudimentary, fundamental, principal: The primary colours in art are red, yellow, and blue.
PRIVACY|17|n. 1 seclusion, retirement, solitude, isolation, retreat, sequestration, reclusiveness, reclusion, solitariness; monasticism: Coleman very much enjoys the privacy of living alone. 2 secrecy, secretiveness, clandestineness, confidentiality, surreptitiousness, covertness, concealment: Many feel that the questions on census forms invade their privacy.
PROBITY|14|n. integrity, uprightness, honesty, morality, rectitude, virtue, goodness, decency, righteousness, right-mindedness, sincerity, trustworthiness, honour, equity, justness, justice, fairness: Lord Chancellors have consistently been men of unquestioned probity.
PROBLEM|8|n. 1 difficulty, trouble, question, dilemma, quandary, predicament, complication, hornet's nest, imbroglio, mess, muddle, stew, Colloq can of worms, fine kettle of fish, (pretty) pickle, Brit facer: The Chancellor must constantly deal with the problems of the country's economy. 2 puzzle, conundrum, poser, riddle, question, enigma, puzzler, Colloq mind-boggler, hard or tough nut to crack: The problem is how to get the yolk out without breaking the shell. --adj. 3 unruly, unmanageable, intractable, uncontrollable, difficult, ungovernable, refractory, incorrigible, obstreperous, delinquent, maladjusted, disturbed, emotionally upset: He teaches at a school where most of the students are problem children.
PROCESS|9|n. 1 procedure, proceeding, operation, system, method, approach, technique; course of action: I am sure you understand how the process works. What process do they use to make paper out of wood? 2 activity, function, development: The process of photosynthesis is the means by which plants synthesize carbohydrates. --v. 3 treat, prepare, (make or get) ready, change, modify, transform, convert, alter: This is the room where the ingredients are processed before mixing. 4 handle, take care of, organize, deal with, manage; dispose of, answer, manipulate: After the earthquake the insurance companies processed thousands of claims.
PROCURE|11|v. 1 obtain, acquire, get, come by, secure, get or lay one's hands on, get (a) hold of, gain, win, come into, pick up, find, appropriate, requisition; buy, purchase: I have been trying to procure early editions of Defoe's works. 2 accomplish, bring about, effect, cause, produce: Using every resource available to her, she finally procured his release.
PRODIGY|14|n. 1 (child or girl or boy) genius, wonder child, Wunderkind, mastermind, talent, intellect, intellectual or mental giant, wizard, virtuoso, Colloq brain, Einstein, whiz-kid or whizz-kid, whiz or whizz, walking dictionary or encyclopedia or encyclopaedia: She was a prodigy at the age of six and went on to become a great concert performer. 2 wonder, marvel, phenomenon, sensation, miracle: Some regarded the painting Nude Descending a Staircase a prodigy of cubist art.
PRODUCE|12|v. 1 make, develop, turn out, put or bring out, manufacture, fabricate, generate, create; construct, assemble, put together, compose; mould, cast; extrude: This machine is capable of producing 10,000 units an hour. 2 yield, give rise to, cause, bring up, bring forth, spark, initiate, occasion, bring about, prompt, evoke, start, create, generate, beget, originate: He was unprepared for the laughter produced by his slip of the tongue. 3 generate, beget, create, put out or forth, breed, propagate, bear, give birth to, hatch, grow: See how the plant is producing buds at these nodes? 4 bring forward or in or out, introduce, present, offer, show, exhibit, display, stage, put on, mount: She was the first to produce Japanese Noh drama in the west. 5 disclose, reveal, bring to light, show, display, draw: When I refused to give him the money, he produced a gun. 6 supply, furnish, provide, deliver, distribute: They are accused of continuing to produce fluorocarbons despite the government ban. --n. 7 vegetables, fruit, Chiefly Brit greengrocery: The produce is delivered to the markets from the farms at the crack of dawn.
PROFESS|10|v. 1 assert, claim, aver, asseverate, state, affirm, confirm, confess, declare, say, hold, maintain, present, offer, proffer, tender, set forth, put forward, pronounce, enounce, enunciate, announce, utter, vow, avow: He professed himself satisfied with the judge's decision. 2 pretend, lay claim, make a pretence, purport, act as if, simulate: They professed to be legitimate businessmen, but I was always suspicious.
PROJECT|18|n. 1 proposal, plan, scheme, design, layout: The project for housing low-income families had to be modified to allow for car parking. 2 activity, enterprise, programme, undertaking, venture, assignment, commitment, obligation, contract, engagement; occupation, job, work: What project will you move on to when you complete this one? --v. 3 plan, scheme, prepare, devise, conjure up, concoct, think up, contemplate, contrive, invent, work up or out, propose, present, outline, design, draft, draw up, delineate, describe, put forth or forward, Colloq cook up: In his theory, he projects a quite different causal relationship. 4 cast, hurl, fling, throw, toss, launch, propel, discharge; shoot, transmit; Colloq chuck, lob: A body projected into space will keep on travelling unless it strikes something. This device projects stereoscopic pictures on a screen. 5 jut out, stick out, protrude, stand out, bulge (out), extend (out), poke out, beetle (out), overhang: The cornice projects a full six feet over the street. 6 estimate, reckon, calculate, predict, forecast: The economists projected a decline in inflation over the coming months.
PROLONG|10|v. extend, lengthen, elongate, stretch (out), draw or drag out, drag (on), keep up, string out, protract: Not wishing to prolong the agony, we left after the first act. Aunt Caroline prolonged her visit by yet another week.
PROPOSE|11|v. 1 offer, tender, proffer; present, introduce, submit, advance, set forth, put forward, propound, bid, recommend, suggest, come up with, call attention to, broach, Brit table: Management proposed a wage increase of five per cent. The architect proposed that we consider an addition to the north wing. 2 offer, mean, intend, plan, expect, aim: We propose to make a start on the decorating once we have had our lunch. 3 nominate, name, put forward or forth, suggest, introduce, submit, put up: His boss proposed him for membership of the golf club.
PROSAIC|11|adj. dull, banal, overdone, tedious, clich÷d, commonplace, stereotyped, pedestrian, flat, stereotypical, hackneyed, stock, routine, everyday, ordinary, common, workaday, mediocre, undistinguished, bland, characterless, homely, plain, trite, stale, threadbare, tired, lifeless, dead, dry, jejune, boring, tiresome, unimaginative, unpoetic, unromantic, uninspiring, uninspired, insipid, uninteresting, humdrum, monotonous, Literary ennuyant, Colloq ho-hum, run-of-the-mill, mouldy: She found the law too prosaic and trained to become a jockey.
PROSPER|11|v. flourish, thrive, succeed, fare well, progress, get ahead, grow, develop; profit, gain, become wealthy, grow rich, make one's fortune, make good, Colloq make it, make one's pile: With hard work, thrift, and perseverance, MacIntosh prospered and was soon able to buy the house he wanted.
PROVERB|14|n. saying, maxim, aphorism, saw, adage, apophthegm or apothegm, axiom, moral, moralism, homily, dictum, gnome, epigram, commonplace, platitude, truism, clich÷, bromide: According to the old proverb, 'A fool and his money are soon parted'.
PROVIDE|13|v. 1 supply, furnish, equip, outfit, fix up (with) provision, contribute, accommodate, purvey, cater, stock (up), victual, provender: After providing us with a map and a compass, they sent us off across the moor. 2 produce, yield, afford, lend, give, present, offer, accord: The fertile land provided food in plentiful abundance. During those bleak years, the radio provided us not only with news but also entertainment. 3 stipulate, lay down, require, demand, specify, state: The lease provided that the rent be reviewed every five years. 4 provide for. look after, care for, support, take care of, take under one's wing, minister to, attend (to): The bequest ensured that his widow would be amply provided for. 5 provide for or against. arrange for, prepare for, anticipate, forearm, make or get ready for, plan for, take precautions, take measures: It would seem that you have provided for any eventuality.
PROVISO|12|n. See provision, 2. above.
PROVOKE|16|v. 1 stir (up), stimulate, move, motivate, push, impel, drive, get, spur (on), egg on, goad, force, compel, prompt, rouse, arouse, waken, awaken, enliven, animate, activate, induce, encourage: She did her best to provoke him to start his new novel. 2 start, incite, instigate, produce, promote, foment, kindle, work up: Are you trying to provoke an argument? 3 irritate, annoy, irk, pester, vex, pique, anger, enrage, madden, incense, infuriate, gall, rile, nettle, harass, hector, plague, badger, exasperate, get on one's nerves, try one's patience, frustrate, upset, disturb, perturb, distress, outrage, offend, insult, affront: If he continues to provoke me I shall punch him.
PROWESS|10|n. 1 ability, skill, skilfulness, aptitude, adroitness, dexterity, dexterousness, adeptness, facility, finesse, expertise, mastery, genius, talent, know-how, ingenuity, capability, proficiency: Her prowess as a sculptor is unquestioned. 2 bravery, valour, courage, boldness, daring, intrepidity, dauntlessness, mettle, stout-heartedness, valiance, lion-heartedness, fearlessness, gallantry, doughtiness, fortitude: He was famed for his prowess in single combat.
PRUDERY|13|n. prudishness, priggishness, puritanicalness, puritanism, squeamishness, Grundyism, primness, stuffiness, old-maidishness, precisianism: She said that censorship was the result of prudery rather than concern for moral welfare.
PRUDISH|8|adj. priggish, puritanical, old-maidish, prissy, prim, fussy, squeamish, strait-laced, stiff, rigid, over-nice, over-modest, over-coy, proper, demure, decorous, formal: Victorian society was both prudish and prurient.
PSYCHIC|12|adj. 1 psychical, mental, spiritual, psychologic(al), subjective, psychogenic, cognitive, metaphysic(al), intellectual, cerebral; philosophic(al): The psychic effect of losing a loved one can have physical repercussions. 2 psychical, extrasensory, supernatural, occult, magical, telepathic, telekinetic, preternatural, spiritualistic, unearthly, extramundane, supermundane: Many psychic phenomena have never been satisfactorily explained. --n. 3 medium, spiritualist, clairvoyant, mind-reader, telepathist, seer, seeress, crystal-gazer, soothsayer, astrologer, fortune-teller, prophet, prophetess, sibyl: We were disturbed to learn that our political leaders consulted psychics.
PUBERTY|14|n. pubescence, sexual maturity, adolescence, juvenescence, teens; nubility: The anxiety of parents for the health of an infant is as nothing compared with their concerns when their child reaches puberty.
PUBLISH|9|v. make public, put out, broadcast, spread (about or around), advertise, make known, let (something) be known, announce, publicize, report, proclaim, promulgate, bruit about, reveal, divulge, disclose, break the news (about), Colloq leak: The minister resigned the day the news of the scandal was published.
PUNGENT|10|adj. 1 spicy, hot, sharp, strong, penetrating, aromatic, seasoned, peppery, piquant, tangy, flavourful, tasty, sapid: The pungent odours of devilled kidneys dominated the dining-room. 2 sharp, biting, stinging, caustic, severe, astringent, stern, acrid, harsh, sour, acid, tart, acrimonious, bitter, cutting, keen, barbed, trenchant, scathing, incisive, mordant, sarcastic: This week's Review carries a pungent criticism of his new novel. 3 distressing, upsetting, poignant, painful, hurtful, penetrating, piercing, stabbing, intense, severe, acute, agonizing, oppressive, excruciating, racking, consuming: Only when surgery eased the pressure was he relieved of the pungent pain.
PURSUIT|9|n. 1 pursuing, chasing, following, hunting, hunt, going or running after, tracing, trailing, tracking, running down, dogging, stalking, shadowing, Brit chivvy or chivy or chevy, Colloq tailing: We all joined in the pursuit of the animal. The police set off in hot pursuit of the thieves. 2 pursuance, striving after, seeking, searching, search, looking for: Many think that the pursuit of wealth is the only worthwhile thing in life. 3 work, line (of work), employment, field, area, speciality or US and Canadian only specialty, specialization, business, profession, trade, vocation, calling, career, life-work, activity; hobby, pastime, avocation, interest; Slang racket: What pursuits are open to Jack Ketch now that hanging has been abolished?
PUTDOWN|13|n. dig, sneer, snub, disparaging or denigrating remark, slight, offence, insult: The worst put-down was to tell her she looks like her sister, whom she hates.
PUTREFY|15|v. rot, decompose, decay, moulder, go bad, spoil, deteriorate, go off: The battlefield was strewn with putrefying bodies.
PUTUPON|11|adj. imposed upon, inconvenienced, put out, taken advantage of, exploited, abused: I shall be happy to help, and I don't feel put-upon at all.
QUALIFY|11|v. 1 equip, fit (out), ready, prepare, condition, make eligible; certify: His training in the air force qualified him to be a pilot. 2 be eligible, meet the requirements, be fit or suitable or equipped or ready or prepared, make the grade: Sue will qualify as a doctor if she passes just one more exam. 3 temper, mitigate, modify, moderate, modulate, restrict, limit: In light of their later behaviour, I shall have to qualify my recommendation that you accept them as students.
QUALITY|8|n. 1 property, attribute, characteristic, mark, distinction, je ne sais quoi, trait: Can you describe the qualities needed to be a good musician? 2 grade, calibre, rank, status, importance, value, worth: In the curiosity shop items of high and low quality are mixed together haphazardly. 3 Old-fashioned eminence, prominence, importance, excellence, superiority, distinction, standing, supremacy, dignity, grandeur, nobility, blue blood: Despite her shabby appearance, from her bearing and speech the woman was clearly a person of quality.
QUARREL|3|n. 1 dispute, argument, disagreement, debate, controversy, discord, difference (of opinion), contention, misunderstanding; wrangle, tiff, row, squabble, altercation, set-to, scuffle, feud, fight, fray, fracas, brawl, Donnybrook, mél÷e or melee, riot, battle (royal), Colloq dust-up, barney, scrap, US spat: I have no quarrel with my accountant - it's the tax man that's the problem. A quarrel broke out over whose turn it was to wash the dishes. --v. 2 argue, disagree, dispute, altercate, have an altercation, differ, wrangle, be at odds or loggerheads, clash, squabble, feud, fight, brawl, battle, Colloq fall out, scrap: When we were children, my sister and I quarrelled all the time, but we still loved each other.
QUARTER|5|n. 1 fourth: Statistics showed that a quarter of the population attended church regularly. 2 three-month period, three months, ninety days, thirteen weeks; fifteen minutes; phase (of the moon), quadrature: The first quarter's rent is now due. We waited a quarter of an hour. The moon is in its third quarter. 3 area, region, part, section, district, zone, division, territory, place, neighbourhood, locality, locale, location, point, spot; direction: The army was called in to patrol the quarter of the city where looting had occurred. It was difficult to tell from which quarter the wind was blowing. 4 mercy, compassion, mercifulness, clemency, leniency, forgiveness, favour, humanity, pity: The hostages expected no quarter from their captors. 5 quarters. living quarters, lodging(s), dwelling-place, dwelling, accommodation(s), rooms, chambers, residence, shelter, habitation, domicile, home, house, abode; Military billet, barracks, cantonment, casern or caserne: We found comfortable quarters in which we remained during our stay in the area. --v. 6 lodge, accommodate, house, board, shelter, put up; Military billet, post, station: The tour guide stayed at the best hotel, while we were quartered in a youth hostel.
QUIBBLE|3|v. 1 equivocate, split hairs, evade, be evasive, palter, chop logic, bandy words, cavil, pettifog, Colloq nit-pick: While people continued to be kept in slavery, the politicians quibbled over the difference between 'liberty' and 'freedom'. --n. 2 quibbling, equivocation, hair-splitting, splitting hairs, evasion, paltering, sophistry, Colloq nit-picking: Lawyers often become involved in a quibble over the mot juste and forget their clients. 3 cavil, sophism, subtlety, nicety: It's a quibble whether you say 'either' and 'neither' to rhyme with 'peek' or 'pike'.
QUICKEN|3|v. 1 accelerate, hasten, speed up: As we neared the house, our pace quickened. 2 expedite, hurry, accelerate, hasten, speed (up): We did everything we could to quicken her departure. 3 stimulate, arouse, kindle, spark, invigorate, excite, animate, vitalize, vivify, galvanize, enliven, awaken, energize, revive, resuscitate, reinvigorate: Olivia's inspiring lectures quickened the imagination of everyone who heard them.
QUICKLY|6|adv. 1 rapidly, swiftly, speedily, fast: Although share prices dropped in the morning, they recovered quickly during afternoon trading. 2 rapidly, swiftly, speedily, fast, with dispatch or despatch, apace, post-haste, at or on the double, with all speed, quick, Colloq US and Canadian lickety-split: Run quickly, and you'll get there before the shop closes. 3 instantly, promptly, hastily, at once, immediately, straight away, right away, shortly, without delay, (very) soon, hurriedly, quick, Colloq pronto: You'll have to leave quickly to catch your train.
QUIETEN|5|v. Often, quieten down. quiet (down), still, silence, hush, calm, tranquillize, lull: He gradually quietened down the audience, and the curtain rose.
QUIETLY|8|adv. 1 silently, soundlessly, noiselessly, inaudibly, in silence, softly: She tiptoed quietly out of the room. 2 in hushed tones, in whispers: In a corner of the room a young couple were quietly conversing. 3 peacefully, calmly, serenely, peaceably, meekly, mildly: When the police explained they only wanted him to help in their inquiries, he went with them quietly. 4 modestly, humbly, demurely, unpretentiously, unostentatiously, unobtrusively, unassumingly, sedately: The applicants sat quietly, waiting to be called in for the interview.
RADIANT|8|adj. 1 shining, bright, beaming, burning, ablaze, blazing, brilliant, luminous, resplendent, splendid, splendorous, lustrous, gleaming, glowing, phosphorescent, shimmering, shiny, glossy, glistening, incandescent, alight, effulgent, refulgent, sparkling, dazzling, glittering, coruscating, scintillating, twinkling; aglow: In her hair she wore a diamond tiara, a radiant crown whose glory was diminished only by her beauty. The room was radiant with sunshine. 2 happy, overjoyed, ecstatic, rapturous, delighted, joyful, blithe, blithesome, blissful, beatific, glad, gleeful, joyous, gay, bubbling, bubbly, jubilant, elated, rhapsodic, exultant, exhilarated, in seventh heaven, in heaven, Colloq on cloud nine, Brit over the moon: Carrie was absolutely radiant when she learned she was pregnant.
RADICAL|10|adj. 1 basic, fundamental, elementary, inherent, constitutional, elemental, essential, cardinal, principal, primary, deep, deep-seated, profound, underlying, organic, natural, rudimentary: There is a radical error in your approach to the problem. There are radical differences in the ways we regard the English language. 2 thorough, thoroughgoing, complete, entire, total, exhaustive, sweeping, (all-)inclusive, comprehensive, all-embracing, out-and-out, drastic, severe, extreme, extremist, revolutionary: We have made radical changes in the way we live. Every political party that is not in power promises radical reform. 3 extremist, revolutionary, fanatic(al), militant, anarchist(ic), immoderate: A staunch conservative, Vincent regarded as radical anyone who disagreed with him. --n. 4 extremist, revolutionary, fanatic, zealot, immoderate, anarchist, militant: The radicals favour reform, the conservatives the status quo - but there is nothing new in that. 5 communist, leftist, left-winger, red, Bolshevik, Bolshevist, pink, Slang US pinko: Carlo, recently arrested as a spy, had been a radical since his days at university.
RAILWAY|13|n. train, rail, rolling-stock, Archaic iron horse, US railroad: Railway service could be improved on some suburban lines. Diamond Jim Brady, the American millionaire, made his money from the railway.
RAKEOFF|9|n. kickback, commission; discount, mark-down, rebate, Colloq cut, piece: Does Mac get a rake-off for every buyer he sends to the shop?
RAMPANT|11|adj. 1 unchecked, uninhibited, unrestrained, wild, uncontrolled, out of control, out of hand, frenzied, unbridled, uncontrollable, violent: He was a victim of rampant jealousy. Jennie could hardly be described as a rampant feminist. 2 profuse, unbounded, abounding, flourishing, rife, widespread, everywhere, epidemic, pandemic, prevalent, unrestrained, unchecked, running wild, uninhibited, indiscriminate, wild, uncontrolled; in control, holding sway, in full sway, dominant, predominant; exuberant, rank, luxuriant: Before Masterson became sheriff, vice and crime were rampant in the town.
RAMPART|11|n. defence, bastion, guard, fortification, security, stronghold, bulwark, barricade, wall; earthwork, breastwork, parados, gabion: The old town is surrounded by seven rows of ramparts leading up to the cathedral at the summit. They regard religion as an impenetrable rampart against immorality.
RANCOUR|9|n. hatred, hate, antipathy, spite, resentment, resentfulness, antagonism, hostility, malignity, bitterness, malevolence, malice, venomousness, venom, vindictiveness, vengefulness, spleen, acrimony, animus, animosity, enmity, bad feeling, bad blood: Owing to the rancour between them, the brothers had not exchanged a word in forty years.
RANSACK|5|v. 1 search, examine, go through or over (with a fine-tooth(ed) comb), comb, rake or rummage through, scour, explore, scrutinize, turn inside out: I ransacked the second-hand bookshops for a copy but had no success. 2 rob, plunder, pillage, sack, despoil, loot, strip; burgle, US and Canadian burglarize: The thieves who ransacked the shop apparently missed the most valuable jewel.
RAPPORT|5|n. empathy, relationship, sympathy, harmony, affinity, accord, bond, relationship, (mutual) understanding, camaraderie: The minute we met we established a rapport.
RAPTURE|9|n. ecstasy, delight, joy, joyfulness, joyousness, pleasure, exaltation, elation, thrill, enchantment, euphoria, beatitude, transport, enchantment: Nothing could compare with the rapture he felt at seeing his daughter win the Nobel prize.
RAUCOUS|6|adj. harsh, rasping, rough, husky, hoarse, grating, scratching, scratchy, discordant, dissonant, jarring; strident, shrill, noisy, loud, ear-splitting, piercing: You could hear Ramsay's raucous voice above the others. A raucous scream came from the parrot's cage.
REALITY|10|n. 1 actuality, fact, truth, genuineness, authenticity, Aristotelianism entelechy: It is important to deal with the reality not the potentiality of the situation. 2 in reality. See really, below.
REALIZE|16|v. 1 make real, effect, bring about, make happen, make a reality, actualize, accomplish, produce, achieve, fulfil, materialize, effectuate: Many of Leonardo da Vinci's inventions were not realized in his lifetime. 2 understand, appreciate, comprehend, be aware of, conceive of, grasp, perceive, discern, be or become conscious or aware or appreciative of, recognize, see, Colloq catch on (to), cotton (on) to, Brit twig: Did Clare fully realize the consequences of her actions? 3 return, gain, clear, profit, make, earn, bring or take in, net, produce, get: We have realized a substantial profit on the sale of the shares bought when the company was privatized.
REBIRTH|7|n. renaissance or renascence, revival, renewal, reawakening, resurgence, revitalization, resurrection, regeneration, rejuvenation, restoration, new beginning, reincarnation; metempsychosis, palingenesis: The 15th century marked the rebirth of learning in Europe after the so-called Dark Ages.
RECEIPT|11|n. 1 sales receipt, register receipt, sales slip, ticket, stub, counterfoil, proof of purchase, voucher: Any request for a return or exchange must be accompanied by a receipt. 2 delivery, acceptance, reception, arrival: He has acknowledged receipt of the merchandise. 3 receipts. income, proceeds, gate, takings, gains, return, Colloq take: The receipts from ticket sales were below expectations.
RECEIVE|12|v. 1 get, obtain, come by, collect, take (into one's possession), accept, be given, acquire, come into, inherit, gain, profit, make: She received a large sum of money from the sale of the house. What will he receive when his aunt dies? 2 earn, be paid, make, draw, gross, net, clear, pocket, Colloq take home, walk off or away with, US pull down: He receives a bigger weekly salary than I make in a year. 3 greet, meet, welcome; show in, give entr÷e, let in, admit: We received our guests in the foyer. 4 experience, undergo, endure, suffer, bear, sustain, be subjected to, meet with: In return for helping him all I received was a punch in the nose. 5 gather, hear, learn, ascertain, be told, be informed or notified of, find out, pick up: We only received the information yesterday that you were coming to stay for a month.
RECLINE|9|v. lie (down), lie back, lean back, lounge, rest, repose, sprawl, loll, stretch out: Just recline on the sofa and make yourself comfortable.
RECOUNT|9|v. 1 relate, narrate, tell, recite, report, communicate, impart, unfold: The old man recounted for us the legend of the two-headed lamb. 2 particularize, review, detail, describe, enumerate, specify: Must I recount every particular all over again?
RECOVER|12|v. 1 regain, get or take or win or make back (again), recoup, repossess, retake, recapture, restore, retrieve, reclaim, redeem: It was impossible to recover the time lost. After a fierce battle, the territory was recovered. 2 get well or better, recuperate, convalesce, mend, return to health, regain one's strength or health, be on the mend, heal, improve, revive, rally, take a turn for the better, get back on one's feet, pull through: It took me a week to recover from the operation. Lucy had a virus, but she's recovering now. 3 save, salvage, deliver, rescue, return, bring back, reclaim, retrieve: They never did recover the gold from the sunken ship.
RECRUIT|9|v. 1 draft, induct, enlist, enrol, muster, raise, call up, conscript, mobilize, impress, levy: Owing to the nefarious enemy attack, there was little time to recruit men for a strong fighting force. --n. 2 conscript, trainee, beginner, apprentice, initiate, novice, neophyte, tiro or tyro, US draftee, enlistee, Colloq greenhorn, rookie: The new recruits have to be issued with their uniforms and other gear.
RECTIFY|15|v. correct, revise, redress, put or set right, cure, repair, remedy, improve, emend, fix, adjust, square, ameliorate: What do you intend to do to rectify the damage you have done?
REFLECT|12|v. 1 mirror, send or throw back, reproduce, return; echo: The smooth surface of the lake reflected the sunlight. The radio waves are reflected and focused by this parabolic dish. 2 show, demonstrate, exhibit, illustrate, exemplify, reveal, lay bare, expose, display, disclose, bring to light, uncover, point to, indicate, suggest, evidence: They say that your true emotions are reflected in your dreams. His crime reflects the depths of depravity to which a person can sink. 3 Often, reflect about or on. think (about or over or on), contemplate, muse (about or on), consider, ponder (about or over or on), deliberate (on or over), ruminate or meditate (about or on or over), cogitate (about or on or over); mull over, weigh, evaluate, examine: I was just sitting here reflecting. I was reflecting on what you said about wanting to quit your job. 4 reflect on or upon. result in, end in, bring, attract, cast, throw: The success of the team reflects credit on the coach.
REFRESH|8|v. 1 enliven, renew, revive, freshen (up), resuscitate, bring back to life, breathe new life into, invigorate, vitalize, energize, brace, fortify, exhilarate, revitalize, reinvigorate, reanimate: I felt fully refreshed after a short nap. 2 arouse, rouse, awaken, waken, reawaken, stimulate, jog, prod, activate: Would you mind refreshing my memory as to when and where we last met? 3 fix up, repair, redo, revamp, overhaul, spruce up, recondition, renovate, refurbish, refurnish; renew, restock, restore: All the rooms in the hotel have been recently refreshed. We took the opportunity of the ship's arrival to refresh our supplies.
REFUGEE|9|n. fugitive, runaway, escapee, displaced person, DP, exile, ÷migr÷: The problem of the refugees was most acute after the war.
REJOICE|16|v. delight, exult, glory, celebrate, revel, be happy or delighted or pleased or overjoyed or elated or glad, Colloq be tickled (pink): We all rejoiced to be home once again after the ordeal.
RELAXED|15|adj. nonchalant, easygoing, calm, peaceful, tranquil, serene, pacific, carefree, insouciant, blas÷, languorous, languid, devil-may-care, free and easy, happy-go-lucky, mellow, at ease, composed, cool: Richard takes a relaxed view of life.
RELEASE|7|v. 1 let go, (set) free, liberate, (set or let or turn) loose, unloose, untie, unchain, unfetter, unshackle, deliver, let out, disenthral, discharge, let off, emancipate, manumit, rescue, save: They kept up a strenuous campaign until all the political prisoners were released. 2 issue, publish, make available, put out, pass out, hand out, come out with, circulate, distribute, disseminate; launch, unveil, present: The government refuses to release information that is considered harmful to its interests. The band's new album will be released tomorrow. --n. 3 freeing, releasing, liberating, loosing, unloosing, delivering, emancipating, manumitting, rescuing, saving, freedom, liberation, deliverance, discharge, emancipation, manumission, rescue, remission, salvation: The release of the prisoner is scheduled for noon. It would be a great release to be rid of housework. 4 press or publicity release, announcement, publicity, notice, story, report: The press office sent out a release to the media about Randolph's appointment.
RELIEVE|10|v. 1 ease, lessen, reduce, diminish, abate, lift, raise, alleviate, mitigate, palliate, soften, soothe: Business will suffer if nothing is done to relieve the burden of high interest rates. The doctor gave me something to relieve the pain. 2 disburden, free, rid, liberate, disencumber, unburden, rescue, save, release: Winning the lottery relieved me of any immediate worries of poverty. 3 help, aid, assist, support, succour, rescue, save, deliver: Will the cavalry arrive in time to relieve the fort, which is under attack? 4 stand in (for), replace, substitute for, take over for or from, US spell, Colloq sub for: I thought you were coming to relieve me at noon.
REMNANT|9|n. 1 scrap, shred, fragment, end, bit, piece, trace, vestige, relic: A silver button was the only remnant of the splendid uniform. 2 leftover, remainder, residue, rest, remains, part: The surviving remnant of the battalion made its way across the desert to Djibouti.
REMORSE|9|n. regret, repentance, ruefulness, sorrow, woe, anxiety, guilty or bad conscience, pangs of conscience, humiliation, embarrassment, guilt, self-reproach, mortification, shame, contrition, contriteness, penitence, compunction, bitterness: It is impossible to describe the remorse he felt at having run over the little girl's puppy.
REPLETE|9|adj. 1 Often, replete with. full (of), filled up (with), overflowing (with), well supplied or well provided or well stocked (with), chock-full (of), crammed or jammed or jam-packed (with), brim-full (with), chock-a-block, bursting, teeming, loaded, overloaded (with), gorged (with), stuffed (with), Colloq up to the eyes or ears (in), up to here or there (in), US up to the old wazoo (in), Slang lousy (with), Taboo slang up to the Brit arse (in) or US ass (in): His speech was replete with names, dates, and precise quotations, all delivered without a note of any kind. 2 satisfied, sated, satiated: After a meal like that, anybody would feel replete.
REPRESS|7|v. suppress, put down, (keep in) check, curb, quash, stifle, overcome, squelch, (keep under) control, contain, restrain, constrain, limit, keep back, quell, hold back or in, subdue, inhibit, hamper, hinder, deter, frustrate, discourage, disallow: The government tried to repress freedom of expression.
REPROOF|10|n. See reprimand, 1, above.
REPROVE|12|v. See reprimand, 2, above.
REPUTED|10|adj. alleged, purported, supposed, assumed, presumed; rumoured, said, deemed, held, regarded, viewed, looked on or upon, judged, considered, thought, believed: The police arrested three reputed gang members. They are reputed to be international drug dealers.
REQUEST|5|v. 1 ask for, seek, plead for, apply for, put in for, requisition, call for, demand, insist on, solicit, beg, entreat, beseech, importune: They request my cooperation. I requested to be excused. He requested her to open the door for him. --n. 2 plea, petition, application, requisition, call, demand, solicitation, entreaty: We receive many requests for information.
REQUIRE|5|v. 1 order, command, ask (for), call (for), press (for), instruct, coerce, force; insist, demand; make: I am required to appear in court on Monday. The teacher required that I bring my mother to school. 2 need, want, lack, be lacking, be missing, be short (of); desire: We require one more trainee in order to fill our quota.
REQUITE|5|v. 1 repay, reward, reciprocate, recompense, compensate for, respond to: Her years of tender care were requited with abuse and scorn. 2 retaliate for, revenge, avenge, make restitution for, redress, pay back for, give tit for tat for, make amends for: Who can requite the wrongs inflicted on these poor people?
RESERVE|10|v. 1 keep or hold (back), withhold, save, set or put aside, conserve, preserve, retain, keep (to or for oneself), hold over, postpone, delay, put off, defer: Reserve judgement till you have heard all the facts. I shall reserve my answer to that question for another day. 2 hold, keep, book, register, save, put or set aside, charter, engage, secure, contract for: I have reserved two seats for the matinee. --n. 3 Often, reserves. store, stock, stockpile, inventory, supply, nest egg, reservoir, fund, hoard, cache: We prayed for rain, as our water reserves were getting low. 4 reticence, (self-)restraint, (self-)control, taciturnity, aplomb, formality, coolness, aloofness, guardedness, standoffishness, remoteness, detachment: I had to admire Paul's reserve in the face of such insults. 5 Often, reserves. auxiliary, alternate, substitute, reinforcements, backup, spare: If battle goes badly, we shall have to call out the reserves. 6 See reservation, 4, above. 7 reservation, restriction, restraint, hesitancy, hesitation, limit, limitation, hedging, avoidance, evasion, dodging, fudging: The lawyer acknowledged without reserve that the case was weak. 8 in reserve. ready, in readiness, on hand, available, on call, accessible, as backup, in store, on tap, at (one's) fingertips: We have huge resources in reserve should we require them.
RESIDUE|8|n. remainder, leftover, surplus, remains, rest, excess, dregs, residuum: The residue of the tatterdemalion force escaped into the forest.
RESPECT|11|n. 1 regard, consideration, admiration, esteem, (high) opinion, appreciation: We have great respect for Samuel Simpson, our president. 2 regard, consideration, courtesy, politeness, civility, attentiveness, thoughtfulness, etiquette, deference, reverence, veneration: Few treat Alastair with the respect he deserves. 3 reference, relation, connection, comparison, regard, bearing: What are they planning to do with respect to the flooding? 4 detail, point, element, aspect, characteristic, feature, quality, trait, particular, matter, attribute, property: Describe the respects in which the War of American Independence and the French Revolution were similar. 5 respects. regards, good or best wishes, greetings, compliments, Formal salutations, Formal or archaic devoirs: I went to pay my respects to my aunt on her 90th birthday. --v. 6 consider, admire, esteem, honour, appreciate, value, defer to, pay homage to, think highly or well of, look up to, revere, reverence, venerate: I am not sure that I like Mrs Horne, but I certainly respect her for what she has done for the poor. 7 heed, obey, show consideration or regard for, pay attention to, attend to, be considerate or polite or courteous to, defer to: Children are no longer taught to respect their elders.
RESTIVE|10|adj. See restless, below.
RESTORE|7|v. 1 give or hand back, return, make restitution, bring back: We must restore to the people the land that is rightfully theirs. 2 revive, rejuvenate, re-establish, renew, bring back, give (someone) back, resuscitate, resurrect, rekindle, reinvigorate, refresh, stimulate, revitalize, strengthen: Your kindness has restored my faith in mankind. 3 renovate, refurbish, renew, repair, rejuvenate, resurrect, revive, reconstruct, rehabilitate, rebuild; mend, fix, retouch, touch up; Colloq US fix up: They live in a 17th-century cottage that has been lovingly restored. Antiques often lose their value entirely if they are restored. 4 replace, reinstate, put back; return, bring back: They said that they would not rest until they had restored the rightful king on the throne. The doctor said she would soon be restored to good health. 5 replace, reimburse, repay, return, pay or put or give back: Even though he has restored all the money he took, she refuses to forgive him.
RETREAT|7|n. 1 retirement, withdrawal, pulling or falling or drawing back, giving ground, evacuation, flight: The regiment's retreat in the face of overwhelming odds is complete. 2 retirement, seclusion, withdrawal, isolation, solitude, rustication: Since her retreat from public life, she has devoted herself to painting. 3 sanctuary, sanctum (sanctorum), refuge, shelter, den, haven, asylum, resort, hideaway, hide-out: Antonia insisted on having her own retreat where she could occasionally escape from the children. --v. 4 withdraw, decamp, run (away), turn tail, depart, give or lose ground, pull or fall or draw back, retire, evacuate, flee, take flight: We must retreat to the shelter of the hills, where we can regroup. 5 ebb, draw or move back, recede: The waves, constantly advancing and retreating across the pebbly strand, lulled me to sleep.
REVELRY|13|n. merrymaking, fun, revelling, carousal, carousing, gaiety, festivity, jollity, mirth, celebration, ball, high jinks or hijinks, spree, Colloq partying, Slang Brit rave or rave-up: The revelry went on into the wee hours of the morning.
REVENGE|11|n. 1 vengeance, retaliation, reprisal, retribution, vindictiveness, spitefulness, repayment, satisfaction: They think he set fire to the place in revenge for having been dismissed. --v. 2 avenge, get even for, take revenge for, make reprisal for, exact retribution or payment or repayment for: She was seeking ways to revenge the murder of her brother. 3 revenge oneself (on). settle a score or an old score (with), pay (someone) back in his or her own coin, give a Roland for an Oliver, give tit for tat, take an eye for an eye (and a tooth for a tooth), punish, Colloq get, get even (with), give (someone) his or her or their comeuppance, give (someone) a taste of his or her or their own medicine: He found ways to revenge himself on them for all that they had done to him.
REVENUE|10|n. (gross) income, proceeds, receipts, return(s), yield, interest, takings, net (income), gate; profits, gain, Colloq chiefly US take: The revenue from the drugs operation must run into billions.
REVERIE|10|n. day-dream, fantasy, brown study, wool-gathering, absent-mindedness; meditation, thought: I shouldn't disturb Kevin - he's deep in a reverie.
REVERSE|10|adj. 1 opposite, contrary, inverse, converse; inverted, upside down, mirror, reversed, backward: Now try turning the wheel in the reverse direction. What appears on the retina is a reverse image, which the brain inverts. --v. 2 invert, overturn, turn upside down, turn topsy-turvy, turn over, up-end; exchange, change, interchange, transpose: Using your finger to keep the mercury from running out, reverse the tube in the dish of mercury. Perhaps the car will start if you reverse the leads to the battery. 3 overturn, overthrow, upset, set aside, quash, override, annul, nullify, vacate, abandon, revoke, negate, veto, declare null and void, disaffirm, invalidate, cancel, repeal, rescind, overrule, countermand, undo: The superior tribunal reversed the decision of the lower-court judge. 4 alter, change, modify; renounce, recant, take back: Reverse the polarity of the wiring. I reversed my opinion after hearing her sing. 5 back up, move or go backwards or US also backward, backtrack, Nautical make sternway: You will be in the right spot if you reverse a yard or two. --n. 6 opposite, contrary, converse, antithesis: Whatever she tells you, I suggest you do the reverse. 7 back, rear, wrong side, verso, underside; flip side, B-side; tail side: Read what it says on the reverse. 8 set-back, disappointment, misfortune, reversal, mishap, misadventure, trouble, problem, difficulty, vicissitude, adversity, defeat; disaster, catastrophe, d÷bacle, rout, Colloq washout: We suffered a temporary reverse or two in business, but we're all right now. United suffered a humiliating reverse against Wanderers in the cup last week.
REVOLVE|13|v. 1 spin, turn, pivot, rotate, gyrate, whirl, twirl, reel, wheel, go (a)round, circle, cycle, orbit; swivel: As the earth revolves on its axis, the moon revolves round the earth. 2 turn, depend, pivot, rely: His decision to buy a new car revolves on his finances. 3 turn over (in one's mind), ponder, weigh, consider, meditate upon or on, think about, reflect upon or on, ruminate over or on, chew over, contemplate: I have been revolving in my mind your most attractive proposal, but I regret I must turn it down.
RICKETY|8|adj. wobbly, unsteady, broken-down, decrepit, shaky, tottering, teetering, ramshackle, flimsy, frail, precarious, dilapidated, in disrepair, tumbledown, unsecure: Don't put such a heavy lamp on that rickety table!
RIOTOUS|4|adj. 1 tumultuous, unrestrained, wild, noisy, uncontrolled, uncontrollable, unmanageable, chaotic, disorderly, disordered, lawless, turbulent, violent, brawling, obstreperous: The headmaster warned that he would not tolerate such riotous behaviour. 2 rowdy, boisterous, unruly, uproarious, rollicking, roisterous, wild, rumbustious, unrestrained, uninhibited, Archaic robustious, Colloq rambunctious, no-holds-barred: Bernard's retirement party was certainly a riotous affair.
RIPPING|2|adj. Rather archaic fine, splendid, marvellous, excellent, exciting, thrilling, stirring, spine-tingling: Buchan and Henty and Haggard all wrote ripping adventure novels.
RIVALRY|13|n. competition, competitiveness, contention, vying; dispute, feud, feuding, conflict, struggle, strife, controversy, dissension, discord, difference(s): Once again the two local teams meet in a rivalry that has been traditional for over a century. It appeared unlikely that the rivalry between the brothers would be settled amicably.
ROBBERY|8|n. robbing, theft, thievery, thieving, burglary, burgling, pilfering, pilferage, stealing, plundering, plunder, looting, sack, sacking, ransacking, depredation, pillage, pillaging, hijacking, hijack, larceny, breaking and entering, Colloq pinching, hold-up, holding up, mugging, Slang rip-off, ripping-off, Chiefly US stick-up, sticking-up, Brit nicking, US heist: The robbery of the paintings took place in broad daylight. The robbery of the shop was aided by a former employee. The robbery of elderly persons is on the increase.
ROSTRUM|9|n. platform, stage, dais, podium, stand; pulpit; lectern, reading-stand: As the crowd hooted and booed, the speaker descended from the rostrum.
ROUGHLY|14|adv. 1 approximately, around; about, nearly: The British Museum is roughly in the same direction as Euston. It cost roughly two weeks' wages. Roughly two years later I saw her again. 2 harshly, unkindly, severely, sternly, unsympathetically, brutally, violently, savagely, inhumanly, mercilessly, unmercifully, ruthlessly, pitilessly, cruelly, heartlessly: The police were accused of dealing too roughly with those suspected of harming a fellow officer. 3 clumsily, rudely, crudely, awkwardly, primitively, inexpertly, amateurishly, maladroitly, heavy-handedly, ineptly, inefficiently, unskilfully, inartistically: This roughly hewn block of local granite is what the council paid a fortune for as 'sculpture'.
ROUNDUP|10|n. 1 gathering, assembly, rally, collection, herding, US and Canadian (of cattle or horses) corralling, wrangling: The round-up of suspects by the police was focused on the Bournemouth area. 2 summary, synopsis, digest, outline, recapitulation, review, survey, Colloq recap: And now, with a round-up of the news, here is Moira Lawley.
ROUSING|1|adj. stimulating, inspiriting, animating, enlivening, energizing, inspiring, invigorating, vitalizing, electrifying; fervent, vigorous, energetic, enthusiastic, spirited, brisk, lively, animated, Colloq peppy: The huge crowd gave the team a rousing cheer as they jogged out onto the field.
ROUTINE|7|n. 1 custom, habit, procedure, practice, method, schedule, plan, programme, formula, pattern, way, usage, wont, Colloq chiefly Brit drill: Chalmers has always been a stickler for routine. What's the routine here when you want to order a new chair? 2 act, piece, bit, performance, number, part, Colloq thing, shtick: The fat lady doesn't sing till after Joe Miller finishes his routine. --adj. 3 customary, habitual, usual, rote, accustomed,familiar, conventional, regular, ordinary, everyday; programmed, assigned, designated, scheduled: Her routine responsibilities include proofreading. 4 boring, tedious, tiresome, unimaginative, uninteresting; hackneyed, trite, stereotypic(al), clich÷d, run-of-the-mill, ordinary; unvaried, unvarying, unchanging, monotonous, uneventful, rote, automatic, mechanical, perfunctory: He has a routine job on the assembly line.
ROYALTY|13|n. 1 queenship, kingship, royal house or line or family, sovereignty: Royalty does have its privileges, doesn't it? 2 percentage, commission, share, payment, compensation: He receives a royalty every time his song is played or sung commercially, anywhere in the world. 3 nobility, nobles, peerage, Colloq Brit royals: It is ironic that Americans are more impressed than the British with royalty.
RUBBISH|3|n. 1 refuse, waste, debris, rubble, detritus, litter, garbage, sweepings, dross, dregs, residue, leftovers, remnants, lees, scraps, fragments, leavings, residuum, junk, rejects, Chiefly US trash Slang chiefly US dreck: Private companies are now contracted to remove household rubbish weekly. 2 (stuff and) nonsense, balderdash, moonshine, gibberish, gobbledegook or gobbledygook, tommy-rot, bunkum, trash, garbage, twaddle, Colloq rot, flapdoodle, crap, hokum, codswallop, bosh, piffle, hooey, bunk, malarkey, poppycock, boloney or baloney, eyewash, hogwash, bilge-water, bull, Scots havers, Brit tosh, gammon, US a crock, horse feathers, gurry, Slang rot, Brit (a load of (old)) cobblers, Taboo slang bullshit, horseshit, US a crock of shit: What she told you about how I treated her is absolute rubbish. --v. 3 criticize, attack, destroy, Colloq clobber, pan, Chiefly US trash, Slang jump on, Chiefly US and Canadian bad-mouth, jump all over: In his latest book he rubbishes the newspaper that had given his previous book a bad review.
RUINOUS|4|adj. disastrous, destructive, catastrophic, calamitous, deleterious, pernicious, crippling, cataclysmic, baleful, fatal, toxic, poisonous, noxious, harmful, injurious, nasty, Archaic baneful: Smoking can be ruinous to your health. Who was behind the ruinous decision to move the factory to the north-east?
RUMMAGE|6|v. 1 search, hunt, comb, scour, scrabble, look through, sift through, turn inside out or upside down, examine, Colloq scrounge: We rummaged about in four dustbins before finding the discarded receipt. --n. 2 jumble, miscellanea, knick-knacks, odds and ends, hotchpotch or US also hodgepodge: May we borrow your car to collect items for the church rummage sale?
RUNAWAY|13|n. 1 fugitive, escapee, refugee, deserter, truant, absconder: The lad is a notorious runaway who has escaped four times before. --adj. 2 wild, uncontrolled, unchecked, rampant, renegade, unsuppressed; driverless, riderless, loose; escaped: Runaway inflation is ruining the economy of the country. The runaway horses were finally brought back. 3 easy, effortless, overwhelming, uncontested: The incumbent enjoyed a runaway victory in yesterday's election.
RUNDOWN|11|adj. 1 wearied, exhausted, debilitated, weakened, worn out, peaked, fatigued, enervated, tired, drained, spent, out of shape or condition, below par, in bad shape; unhealthy, sickly, ill: He was found in a badly run-down condition, but was soon back on his feet. 2 ramshackle, dilapidated, tumbledown, decrepit, rickety, broken-down: The family lives in a run-down cottage on the edge of the moor. --n. 3 run-through, synopsis, summary, survey, pr÷cis, r÷sum÷, (thumbnail) sketch, outline, rough idea, review, recapitulation, briefing; highlights, high points: Give me a quick run-down of what happened while I was gone.
RUNNING|2|n. 1 operation, management, direction: Who attends to the everyday running of the business while you are away? 2 competition, contest, meet, tournament, race, match; event, game: If he is found to take steroids, he'll be out of the running. --adj. 3 continuous, on-going, continual, perpetual, sustained, constant, uninterrupted, ceaseless, unceasing: Where do they get the energy to keep up a running argument on the same silly subject?
RUPTURE|9|n. 1 break, rift, split, fissure, fracture, cleavage, bursting; breaking, splitting, break-up, breach, schism, disunity, breaking up, severance, division, separation: The rupture was caused by the expansion of the water on freezing. There was no rupture in friendly relations between the families. 2 hernia: He is to undergo surgery for a rupture. --v. 3 break (up or apart), split, fracture, cleave, divide, breach, separate; disrupt, part, sunder: The fabric of the balloon ruptured, the gas escaped, and the basket plummeted earthward.
SADNESS|6|n. unhappiness, dolour, misery, sorrow, dispiritedness, grief, depression, dejection, dejectedness, sorrowfulness, despondency, melancholy, gloom, gloominess: It is hard to describe the sadness we all felt when she left.
SALIENT|7|adj. conspicuous, outstanding, pronounced, noticeable, prominent, significant, important, marked, impressive, striking, remarkable, distinguishing, distinctive, unique, eminent, noteworthy, notable, principal, chief, primary: A salient feature of this policy is that it can be converted at any time from a straight life to an endowment policy.
SALVAGE|11|v. 1 save, recover, rescue, redeem, deliver, retrieve, reclaim: Were you able to salvage anything of value after the fire? --n. 2 recovery, rescue, retrieval, redemption, deliverance, reclamation, salvation: The salvage of a vessel or cargo at sea invests the salvager with legal rights under certain conditions.
SANCTUM|11|n. 1 sanctuary, holy of holies, shrine: No one is allowed into the sanctum except the high priestess. 2 sanctum sanctorum, den, study, retreat; hiding-place, hide-out, hideaway, cubby-hole: After dinner Roger goes to his sanctum to write.
SARCASM|11|n. scorn, contumely, derision, ridicule, bitterness, acrimony, acrimoniousness, acerbity, harshness, acridity, acridness, asperity, venom, poison, venomousness, poisonousness, virulence, spite, spitefulness, malice, maliciousness, malevolence, satire, irony, cynicism, disdain: Kathy was too thick-skinned to appreciate the sarcasm of Tom's cutting commentary on her acting.
SATANIC|9|adj. 1 diabolic(al), fiendish, devilish, Mephistophelian, demonic, demoniac(al), infernal, cacodemonic, ghoulish, hellish, infernal, evil, wicked, iniquitous, corrupt, depraved, perverted, perverse, godless, ungodly, impious, unholy, sinister, dark, black, immoral, amoral: They practise witchcraft and other satanic inventions. 2 dire, monstrous, heinous, atrocious, hideous, horrible, horrendous, horrid, horrifying, loathsome, vile, abhorrent, unspeakable, unutterable, damnable, despicable, abominable: The miners worked under positively satanic conditions.
SATIATE|7|v. 1 stuff, glut, gorge, cloy, surfeit, overfill, overstuff, glut, pall, overindulge, saturate, choke, deluge, flood, choke, suffocate, weary, exhaust, bore, tire, jade: The travellers were so satiated with food and drink that nothing could wake them. 2 slake, satisfy, quench, content, gratify, sate: I felt the it would take at least a gallon of water to satiate my thirst.
SATIETY|10|n. surfeit, glut, superabundance, overindulgence, saturation, nimiety, excess, superfluity: The painting exudes a mood of sexual languor and satiety.
SATISFY|13|v. 1 gratify, fulfil, comfort, please, content, placate, appease, pacify: It takes a lot to satisfy him: he is one of the fussiest men I have ever worked with. 2 fill, meet, fulfil, provide for, look after or to, serve, answer, comply with, resolve, solve, gratify, indulge; slake, quench, sate, satiate: Your desire for better working conditions can probably only be satisfied by a change of job. What will it take to satisfy your thirst for adventure? 3 convince, persuade, reassure, assure, put (someone's) mind at rest, content: He was satisfied that emigration to Australia was the only option open to him. 4 pay, repay, redress, make good, indemnify, write off, liquidate: I shall see to it that the debt is satisfied at once.
SAVIOUR|10|n. 1 rescuer, salvation, friend in need, Good Samaritan, liberator, redeemer, deliverer, emancipator, champion, knight errant, knight in shining armour: Because he gave her a job when she most needed it, she regarded him as her saviour. 2 the or our Saviour. Christian religion Christ (the Redeemer), Jesus, the Messiah, Lamb of God, Our Lord, Son of God, King of Kings, Prince of Peace, Islam Mahdi.
SAVOURY|13|adj. 1 palatable, delicious, delectable, tasty, toothsome, appetizing, flavourful, flavorous, flavoursome, ambrosial, luscious: Pettigrew bit greedily into the savoury flesh of the ripe melon. 2 tasteful, honest, proper, decent, reputable, respectable, honourable, creditable, upright, decorous, seemly, wholesome, innocent: I am not sure that Victoria is travelling in particularly savoury society. --n. 3 appetizer, hors-d'oeuvre; dessert, sweet; morsel, dainty, titbit or US tidbit, Chiefly Brit starter, Archaic warner: I think I'd like the Welsh rabbit as a savoury.
SCANDAL|6|n. 1 shame, disgrace, embarrassment, sin, outrage: It is a scandal how much of the money raised for charity goes into the pockets of the fund-raisers. 2 discredit, damage, calumny, ignominy, obloquy, dishonour, degradation, disrepute, infamy: The scandal resulting from their being found together could never be lived down. The breath of scandal never touched her. 3 slander, libel, aspersion, innuendo, insinuation, abuse, dirt, defilement, defamation, slur, smear, taint, blemish, spot, stigma, smirch, black mark or spot, blot (on the escutcheon), (badge of) infamy, skeleton in the cupboard, Brit blot on one's copybook: His cowardice brought scandal to the name that could never be lived down.
SCEPTIC|9|n. doubter, questioner, doubting Thomas, disbeliever, nullifidian, agnostic, scoffer, cynic: You'll always find some sceptics who don't believe that a woman could be a good prime minister.
SCHOLAR|4|n. 1 academic, professor, teacher, pedagogue, authority, expert, pundit, savant, bookman, book-woman, man or woman of letters, intellectual, highbrow, bookworm, Colloq egghead, brain, US longhair: Professor Read is one of the most respected linguistics scholars in the world. 2 student, pupil, schoolboy, schoolgirl, undergraduate: Cosgrove was a failure as a scholar, preferring football to physics.
SCIENCE|7|n. 1 (body of) knowledge or information, (body of) laws or principles, discipline, study, branch, field, area, subject, realm, sphere: Many new sciences have sprung up even in the past fifty years. DNA research falls properly into the science of microbiologic genetics. 2 skill, art, technique, expertise, proficiency, method, system: He made a science of brewing tea.
SCOURGE|6|n. 1 curse, misfortune, bane, evil, affliction, plague, adversity, torment, misery, woe: He questions whether AIDS should be considered the scourge of the 20th century. Was it Attila who proved himself the scourge of Rome? 2 whip, lash, cat-o'-nine-tails, knout, quirt, horsewhip, bull-whip: They saw fit to punish themselves with scourges. --v. 3 whip, flog, beat, lash, horsewhip, whale, belt, flagellate: Some medieval sects scourged themselves as they went in procession through the cities. 4 punish, castigate, chastise, discipline, afflict, torment: In the old days, students were scourged if they made a mistake.
SCRATCH|3|v. 1 mar, mark, gouge (out), gash, abrade, graze, scuff, grate against, bruise, damage, injure; claw: If you glue some felt to the bottom, the lamp won't scratch the table. 2 chafe, rub: If you scratch those mosquito bites you might get an infection. 3 Often, scratch out or off. erase, obliterate, rub out or off, cross out, delete, strike out or off, expunge; exclude, eliminate, US x out: You can scratch my name from the list of candidates. She scratched out what she had written and started again. --n. 4 mark, gouge, gash, abrasion, scrape, graze, scuff, bruise, damage, injury; line: Where did you get that scratch on your face? 'It's only a scratch', Sandy protested as they tried to remove the spear from his shoulder. 5 up to scratch. up to standard or par, adequate, sufficient, good enough, competent, satisfactory, competitive, Colloq up to snuff: Cynthia's performance is not yet up to scratch, so she might not make the team. --adj. 6 hasty, hurried, impromptu, unplanned, haphazard, rough, casual, informal, unprepared, unpremeditated, makeshift, extempore, Colloq off the cuff, US pick-up: We didn't have time to practise, so we are racing with a scratch crew.
SCRAWNY|11|adj. bony, skinny, spare, drawn, reedy, haggard, lean, lank(y), scraggy, gaunt, raw-boned, angular, emaciated, cadaverous; anorectic or anorexic: She certainly has changed from that scrawny kid I used to know.
SECRECY|14|n. 1 mystery, concealment, confidentiality, stealth, secretiveness, surreptitiousness, privacy, furtiveness, covertness, clandestineness: Why was there so much secrecy surrounding the publication date of Jennie's book? 2 in secrecy. secretly, mysteriously, confidentially, stealthily, secretively, surreptitiously, privately, furtively, covertly, clandestinely, sneakily: They carry on much of their business in secrecy.
SECRETE|9|v. hide, conceal, cache, bury, cloak, shroud, enshroud, camouflage, mask, disguise, Slang stash away: They secreted the haul from the robbery in the cellar of a house in Balham.
SEEMING|4|adj. apparent, evident, ostensible, outward, superficial, surface, assumed, feigned, pretended, false, so-called, alleged, specious, purported, professed: She was shocked by his seeming indifference to her problems.
SEGMENT|10|n. 1 section, part, division, portion, component, element; piece, fraction, fragment, length, joint, slice, wedge: Only a narrow segment of the population supports the new measures. She divided the orange into three equal segments. --v. 2 divide, partition, section, separate, part, cleave, split, subdivide, fragment: The department was then further segmented into smaller units, each with its own manager.
SEIZURE|16|n. 1 seizing, confiscating, confiscation, appropriation, impounding, commandeering, capture, taking, possession, annexation, sequestration, usurpation: Police today announced the seizure of a shipment of 2000 pounds of cocaine. 2 spasm, attack, fit, paroxysm, convulsion, Technical ictus: He has had another seizure and is not expected to live.
SELFISH|8|adj. 1 greedy, covetous, grasping, avaricious, self-indulgent, self-aggrandizing, acquisitive, self-seeking, self-loving, self-centred, self-absorbed, self-interested, self-serving, egotistic(al), egoistic(al): They pursue success for their own selfish ends. 2 stingy, mean, mercenary, tight, tight-fisted, narrow, penurious, parsimonious, miserly, niggardly, penny-pinching, cheese-paring, ungenerous, illiberal, grudging, uncharitable, possessive, inconsiderate, thoughtless: He is so selfish that he won't even give you the right time.
SENSUAL|7|adj. physical, appetitive, voluptuous, carnal, bodily, fleshly, erotic, sexual, lustful, unchaste, abandoned, dissolute, profligate, dissipated, licentious, lewd, lascivious, lubricious or lubricous, goatish, hircine, lecherous, libidinous, salacious, prurient, rakish, wanton, debauched, Cyprian, loose, dirty, Slang randy: Cranston pursued his sensual pleasures with no regard for morality.
SERIOUS|4|adj. 1 grave, solemn, earnest, unsmiling, poker-faced, straight-faced, sedate, sober, pensive, thoughtful; humourless, sombre, grim, dour, severe: One should be wary of the person who is always serious, who cannot see the ludicrous side of life. 2 grave, important, vital, dangerous, weighty, significant, momentous, crucial, consequential, life-and-death or life-or-death, urgent, pressing; no laughing matter, of consequence or moment or importance: Things like the greenhouse effect and the hole in the ozone layer are serious concerns for all mankind. 3 sincere, straightforward, not joking or fooling, genuine, honest: Is he serious about wanting me to fetch him a left-handed wrench? 4 acute, critical, life-threatening, bad, dangerous, nasty, perilous, alarming, grave, severe, precarious: His condition is serious and we might have to operate tonight. She had no idea that measles could be such a serious illness.
SERRIED|6|adj. ranked, tiered, row on row, ranged, assembled, packed, close, compacted, compact: The serried army of brightly clad warriors stretched as far as the eye could see.
SERVICE|12|n. 1 help, assistance, aid, use, usefulness, utility, benefit, advantage: May I be of service to you? You could do me a great service by not saying anything of this to my mother. 2 maintenance, overhaul, servicing, checking, repair, mending: Must we send the copier out for service or can they do it in the office? 3 serving, accommodation, amenities, waiting, care: The food is good but the service leaves much to be desired. 4 employment, employ: How long have you been in my service, Jones? 5 use, utilization, usage, handling: This old teapot has seen much service. 6 assignment, post, appointment, Military Brit secondment: Oscar was on service in the Far East during the war. 7 rite, ceremony, ritual, worship: I shall be attending a memorial service for Grimes on Saturday. 8 Often, services. army, navy, air force, marines; armed forces or services, military: He was a pianist before joining the service. 9 Often, services. talents, help, professional care, work, advice: You will need the services of a good accountant. 10 serve, serving; putting into play: Clarke's tennis service is faster and more accurate than before.
SESSION|5|n. 1 sitting, seating, assembly, conference, meeting, hearing: Parliament is in session at this very moment. 2 term, period: The bill will be introduced again at the next session of Parliament.
SETTING|2|n. mounting, scenery, background, backdrop, locale, location, surroundings, habitat, home, environs, environment, milieu, frame, context, site, placement; stage set or setting, mise en scëne, scene: It is quite interesting to see how the animals live in their natural setting. The setting of Hardy's novels is in the West Country.
SETTLER|5|n. colonist, frontiersman, frontierswoman, pioneer, immigrant: The early settlers cleared the land for farming.
SEVERAL|10|adj. 1 some, a few, not too or very many, a handful or a sprinkling or a number of: Several people asked for you at the party last night. 2 various, sundry, a variety of, diverse, divers, different, respective, individual, distinct, disparate, particular, certain, specific, discrete, dissimilar: There are several stages one must go through before reaching the end.
SHADOWY|12|adj. 1 dark, shady, bowery, leafy, shaded, gloomy, dusky, dim, Literary bosky: The hotel bar was a shadowy place with pink lights on the tables. 2 vague, dim, dark, obscure, faint, indistinct, indefinite, hazy, ill-defined, unclear, indeterminate: The photograph was too shadowy for us to identify anyone in it. The years before he came to London are part of his shadowy past. 3 spectral, ghostly, phantom, phantasmal, wraithlike, phantasmagoric(al), illusory, dreamlike, imaginary, visionary, chimerical, hallucinatory, unreal, unsubstantial, fleeting, impalpable, transitory, ethereal, immaterial: He saw shadowy figures lurking near the tomb. The plaintiff's case is shadowy, to say the least. 4 See shady, 2, below.
SHAKEUP|11|n. reorganization, rearrangement, overhaul, revamp, restructuring, rehabilitation, make-over, realignment: With new owners you can expect a complete shake-up of top management.
SHALLOW|6|adj. 1 surface, skin-deep, superficial, thin, empty, flimsy, trivial, unimportant, slight, frivolous, idle, foolish: If you read only comic books, your thoughts are bound to be shallow. 2 Often, shallows. shoal(s), sand bar, sandbank, bank, shelf: This boat draws too much water to go fishing in the shallows.
SHARPLY|10|adv. 1 severely, sternly, harshly, cuttingly, acerbically, peremptorily, angrily, strictly, firmly: Her teacher sharply rebuked Hilary for smiling. 2 suddenly, quickly, abruptly, precipitously, precipitately: Prices increased sharply for the third day in succession. 3 acutely, distinctly, definitely, definitively: These new cameras automatically remain sharply focused on the object.
SHELTER|5|n. 1 protection, cover, refuge, asylum, sanctuary, haven, safety, security: During the hailstorm, we sought shelter in a cave. 2 cover, covering, concealment, screen, umbrella: Under the shelter of a moonless night, they stole quietly past the guards. 3 dwelling-place, habitation, home, dwelling, housing, accommodation: He feels that everyone is entitled to food, clothing, and shelter. --v. 4 protect, screen, shield, safeguard, guard, keep, secure, harbour: The parapet sheltered the guards from the icy wind. 5 seek or take refuge or shelter, hole up, Colloq lie or lay low: Mike sheltered in a mountain hut until the hue and cry died down.
SHIMMER|3|v. 1 shine, gleam, glow, glimmer, glint, glisten, ripple, flicker: The desert shimmered like a lake under the relentless sun. --n. 2 shimmering, shine, gleam, glow, glimmer, glint, gloss, flicker, light: As Julia slunk up to the microphone, the spotlight picked up the shimmer from her black satin gown.
SHORTLY|8|adv. 1 soon, presently, anon, before long, in a (little) while, by and by, Archaic ere long: I'll see you shortly. 2 just, immediately, soon, right: We had dinner with him shortly before he went abroad. 3 abruptly, briefly, peremptorily, curtly, brusquely, sharply, tersely, testily, gruffly, rudely, tartly: 'Leave me alone', said Bill shortly.
SHOWMAN|10|n. producer, impresario, director: P. T. Barnum was possibly the greatest showman in modern history.
SHOWOFF|6|n. braggart, exhibitionist, swaggerer, egotist, boaster, Colloq blowhard, windbag: Sit down and stop being such a show-off, Tetsworth.
SHRIVEL|8|v. Often, shrivel up. shrink, wrinkle, pucker (up), curl (up), wizen, contract; wither, wilt, dry up, desiccate, dehydrate: The soil had dried up and all the plants had shrivelled.
SHUFFLE|3|v. 1 mix (up), intermix, disarrange, rearrange, interfile, intersperse, jumble, confuse; shift (about), mess up, turn topsy-turvy, scatter, disorganize: I shall cut the cards after you have shuffled them. Osbert shuffled the papers on his desk. 2 scuff or drag (one's feet), scrape along, shamble: The boy shuffled into the headmaster's office, guilt written all over his face. 3 equivocate, hem and haw, bumble, shift, cavil, fence, be evasive or shifty, dodge, niggle, split hairs, quibble, prevaricate, Brit hum and haw, Colloq waffle: The suspect shuffled when asked the names of his accomplices. --n. 4 shamble, shambling, scuffling, scraping: Whenever he was lying, he did a funny little shuffle with his feet. 5 sidestep, evasion, subterfuge, trick, dodge, shift, prevarication, quibble, shuffling: Tell me what you've done with the money - and no shuffle!
SHUTTLE|3|v. commute, alternate: He shuttles daily between London and Paris.
SIGNIFY|14|v. 1 sign, signal, indicate, communicate, make known, convey, symbolize, betoken, represent, express, announce, declare, denote, say, mean, specify; connote, intimate, suggest, reveal, disclose, impart: She signified her agreement by a nod. What does the phrase 'pursuit of happiness' signify to you? 2 matter, count, be significant or important or consequential, be of significance or of importance or of consequence, carry weight, impress, stand out, deserve or merit consideration: It signifies little that they were found innocent of a crime we all believe they committed.
SILENCE|9|n. 1 quiet, quietness, stillness, soundlessness, noiselessness, calm, calmness, hush, quietude, tranquillity, peace, peacefulness, serenity: The silence was so complete that I could hear my heart beating. 2 speechlessness, muteness, dumbness, reticence, taciturnity, uncommunicativeness: Do not construe his silence as agreement. --v. 3 quiet, mute, hush, still, shush, calm, tranquillize, soothe, Chiefly Brit quieten: The audience was silenced by the start of the overture. 4 mitigate, temper, mollify, take the sting out of, propitiate, pacify, blunt, suppress, repress, restrain, subdue, draw the fangs or teeth of, inhibit, put down, damp, mute, squelch, quash, emasculate, muzzle, muffle, shut off, gag, stifle, smother, deaden (the effect of): Only a full account of what lay behind these events will silence criticism in the media.
SIMILAR|9|adj. 1 like, almost identical, comparable, equivalent, nearly the same; alike: That brooch is similar to the one I bought for my mother. The two may be similar, but they are not the same. 2 be similar to. resemble, be like, correspond to, compare favourably with: This letter is very similar to the one I received yesterday.
SINCERE|9|adj. honest, truthful, true, veracious, genuine, heartfelt, true-hearted, undissembling, unfeigned, open, (open and) above-board, straightforward, direct, frank, candid, guileless, artless, Colloq upfront, on the level, on the up and up: I took her criticism as a sincere desire to see improvement in my work. You have always been sincere in your emotional involvements.
SINKING|8|adj. 1 queasy, nervous, uneasy, tense, apprehensive, unquiet, fretful, shaky, jittery, jumpy, anxious: Just thinking about the way they treat hostages gave me a sinking feeling in the pit of my stomach. 2 depressed, dejected, miserable, dolorous, doleful, mournful, forlorn, woeful, desolate, despairing, stricken, heavy-laden: I had a sudden sinking feeling when she announced that she had something important to tell me.
SITUATE|7|v. place in a position or situation or location, place, position, locate, set, spot, put, install or instal: Harwood is very well situated to learn what the high command is planning. The greenhouse should be situated on the south side of the house.
SKETCHY|12|adj. cursory, superficial, incomplete, patchy, rough, perfunctory, skimpy, imperfect, crude, hasty, hurried, vague, ill-defined, fuzzy, indistinct, inexact, imprecise, unrefined, unpolished, rough-hewn, unfinished: We received only sketchy reports of what was going on in the capital. This will do as a sketchy outline, but eventually the details will need to be filled in.
SKILFUL|14|adj. skilled, accomplished, adept, adroit, dexterous, expert, proficient, masterly, masterful, gifted, apt, able, clever, talented, capable, professional, trained, qualified, experienced, practised: Julio is a skilful enough driver to race tomorrow. I have to admire the skilful way he handles people.
SKIPPER|9|n. captain, master, commander; boss, leader, chief: The skipper gave orders to put him in irons.
SLENDER|8|adj. 1 slim, lean, willowy, sylphlike, svelte, lissom or lissome, lithe, graceful, snake-hipped, thin, spare, slight, lanky: By exercising regularly, she has retained her slender figure. 2 slim, narrow, slight, poor, unlikely, small, little, scanty, remote, meagre, weak, feeble: Prospects for a quick recovery of the stock market are slender. 3 slim, slight, little, scanty, inadequate, insufficient, insignificant, trifling: The evidence against the defendant was too slender for a conviction.
SLICKER|5|n. 1 confidence man or woman, cheat, swindler, mountebank, Colloq con man, city slicker: That slicker she met in Paris tricked Harriet out of a lot of money before he disappeared. 2 oilskin (raincoat): Best wear your slicker if you're going out in this storm, James.
SNICKER|5|v. 1 snigger, chuckle, giggle, titter, laugh up one's sleeve, mock, scorn, laugh (at), jeer (at): It was embarrassing when the audience began to snicker at the ineptitude of the juggler. --n. 2 snigger, chuckle, giggle, titter: The villain gave a little snicker when he thought he had her in his clutches.
SNUGGLE|5|v. cuddle, snug down, nestle, nuzzle: The puppies snuggled up close to their mother for warmth and protection.
SOCIETY|8|n. 1 fellowship, brotherhood, association, intercourse, companionship, company, camaraderie, friendship: Few people can be happy for long without the society of others. 2 mankind, people, the public: I fear that Bob is not yet ready to mingle with society again. Do you believe that society demands too much? 3 culture, civilization, community, way of life, world; organization, system: The hunting society was replaced largely by the agricultural some 10,000 years ago. 4 high society, haut monde, beau monde, upper classes, polite society, ÷lite, gentry, Colloq upper crust: The purpose of the debutante ball is to introduce young ladies of about 18 to society. 5 organization, club, association, circle, league, institute, academy, alliance, guild, group, fraternity, sorority, brotherhood, sisterhood, fellowship, union, consociation, sodality, Verein, bund or Bund: The society, founded to advance and support linguistic scholarship, is now 100 years old.
SOJOURN|14|n. 1 stay, stop, stopover, visit, rest, holiday, vacation: We had a very pleasant sojourn in Toronto on our way home. --v. 2 stay, stop (over), visit, rest, holiday, vacation, tarry: Next year we plan to sojourn in Bermuda for a while.
SOLICIT|5|v. 1 entreat, beseech, ask (for), implore, petition, importune, appeal for or to, call on or upon, beg, supplicate, pray, crave: He has solicited my help on more than one occasion. 2 accost, approach, entice, lure, pander to, Slang hustle: You can't go out in that neighbourhood without being solicited.
SOMEHOW|15|adv. someway, in one way or another, in some way, somehow or other, by hook or by crook, by fair means or foul, Colloq come hell or high water: Somehow, we have to get into the vault for those papers.
SORCERY|12|n. witchcraft, enchantment, sortilege, necromancy, wizardry, (black or white) magic, shamanism, black art, diabolism: Once Vera works her sorcery on you, you obey her every whim.
SOULFUL|10|adj. sincere, deep, profound, moving, emotional, warm, ardent, intense, fervent, expressive: The lovers exchanged soulful looks.
SPARING|6|adj. 1 thrifty, saving, frugal, spare, careful, prudent, parsimonious, economical, penurious, mean; penny-pinching, stingy, niggardly, miserly, close, close-fisted, cheap, Colloq tight, tight-fisted, Brit mingy: As sparing in his praise as he was in his purse, General Waller rarely complimented his troops. 2 See sparse, 2 below.
SPARTAN|9|adj. austere, strict, severe, harsh, hard, stern, rigorous, rigid, ascetic, stringent, controlled, disciplined, self-denying, abstinent, abstemious: He gave up all luxuries and today lives a Spartan life in the forest.
SPECIFY|13|v. particularize, enumerate, itemize, name, denominate, list, indicate, mention, identify, cite, define, detail, stipulate, spell out, set out or forth, individualize, be specific about, delineate, determine, disambiguate, establish: You must specify the source of each quotation.
SPECTRE|11|n. 1 ghost, phantom, wraith, apparition, vision, spirit, shade, revenant, Doppelgänger, chimera, Colloq spook, bogeyman or bogyman: Each year the spectre appeared to her on Christmas Eve. 2 image, vision, (mental) picture: Again the horrible spectre of war and pestilence arose.
SPONSOR|9|n. 1 backer, supporter, promoter, angel, patron, Maecenas, subsidizer: Make a contribution and we will list you as a sponsor of the games. 2 (radio or television) advertiser: The American broadcasting catch-phrase 'A word from our sponsor' is not to be taken literally. --v. 3 back, support, promote, fund, patronize, subsidize, finance, underwrite: Hughes agreed to sponsor a campaign to clean up the environment.
SQUEEZE|12|v. 1 press, compress, compact, crush, squash, wring, pinch, nip, grip, tweak: Each morning Anne squeezes an orange to make fresh juice for Edgar. Everyone knows that squeezing the nose between the thumb and forefinger means that something smells. 2 extract, wrest, exact, extort, milk, wrench, pry (out), tear, Colloq bleed: It is doubtful that they will be able to squeeze a contribution out of old Scrooge. 3 milk, Colloq shake down, bleed, lean on, put the screws to, put the squeeze on, twist (someone's) arm, US put the arm on: You'll have to squeeze Fletcher if you want to get paid. 4 ram, jam, pack, stuff, cram, crowd, force, press, wedge: We were squeezed into the train so tightly that I could hardly breathe. 5 clasp, clench, embrace, hug, hold, enfold, fold, clutch, Archaic clip: She squeezed him close as they bade goodbye. 6 squeeze through or by. get through or by, pass, (barely) succeed, Colloq squeak through or by, (barely) make it: He managed to squeeze through the exam with a pass mark, but it was touch-and-go. --n. 7 clasp, embrace, hug, clutch, Colloq clinch: She gave me a little squeeze to signal her affection. 8 pressure: I was beginning to feel the squeeze between inflation and high interest rates. 9 crush, jam, crowd, squash, press: There was such a squeeze of people at the sale that I couldn't get in. 10 girlfriend, mistress, sweetheart, Colloq sweetie, Slang moll, broad, Archaic doxy: Willie showed up with his current squeeze. 11 put the squeeze on. press, bring pressure to bear on, urge, influence, Brit pressurize, US pressure: The bank was beginning to put the squeeze on me to repay my overdraft.
SQUELCH|3|v. 1 suppress, subdue, put down, quell, quash, defeat, overcome, outdo, humiliate, Colloq shoot or slap down, take down a peg (or two), take the wind out of (someone's) sails, settle (someone's) hash: The slightest sign of disapproval from Noêl was enough to squelch the most arrogant toady. --n. 2 riposte, retort, comeback, quip, sally, gibe or jibe, barb, Colloq wisecrack, put-down: One of the best squelches was when Oscar Wilde said, referring to a bon mot, 'I wish I'd said that', to which Whistler said, 'You will, Oscar. You will.'
STADIUM|10|n. arena, ground, amphitheatre, hippodrome, coliseum or colosseum, circus: The new football stadium can accommodate 60,000 spectators.
STAMINA|9|n. ruggedness, vigour, vigorousness, (intestinal) fortitude, robustness, indefatigability, staying power, endurance, energy, power, might, mettle, (inner) strength, staunchness, stalwartness, courage, indomitability, Colloq grit, guts, starch, US stick-to-it-iveness, sand, Taboo slang balls: Even at the age of 70, she still had the stamina to run in the marathon.
STANDBY|13|n. 1 supporter, defender, backer, upholder, partisan, sympathizer, adherent, stalwart: His mother had always been his stand-by against the severity of his father. 2 substitute, surrogate, replacement, backup, understudy, second, US and Canadian alternate: They had a second ambulance as a stand-by in case the first broke down or needed servicing. 3 resource, support, replacement: I knew I could always count on you as a stand-by in case I had trouble.
STANDIN|8|n. double, substitute, stunt man or woman; surrogate, replacement, stand-by, backup, understudy, second, US and Canadian alternate: Any time they had to shoot a dangerous scene, my stand-in went through the motions.
STATION|7|n. 1 place, position, spot, post, site, location: The sentry is not to leave his station till relieved. 2 position, place, status, rank, caste, standing, class, level: As a doctor, he attained a station in life far above that of his father. 3 railway station, train station, passenger station, bus station, US and Canadian depot: Let's meet in the waiting-room in the station. --v. 4 position, place, spot, post, site, locate, assign, appoint, garrison, install or instal, Colloq billet: He was stationed in three different places in four years.
STERILE|7|adj. 1 barren, fruitless, unfruitful, childless, unproductive, infertile, infecund: The first great disappointment of Napoleon's life was that Josephine was sterile. 2 pure, aseptic, uninfected, unpolluted, uncontaminated, disinfected, sanitary, sterilized, germ-free, antiseptic: Make sure that you always use a sterile bandage for a wound. 3 barren, unproductive, stale, effete: Vanessa's greatest fear was that her mind would become sterile and she would run out of ideas.
STIFFEN|5|v. 1 thicken, coagulate, clot, harden, jell, set, solidify, congeal, crystallize: Beat the egg-whites with a whisk until they stiffen. 2 brace, reinforce, tauten, rigidify, toughen, strengthen: The weak support was stiffened by means of a steel bar.
STINKER|11|n. wretch, villain, scoundrel, cad, heel, beast, cur, viper, snake in the grass, skunk, swine, polecat, Rather old-fashioned blackguard, rogue, Archaic knave, varlet, dastard, (base) caitiff, Colloq stinkpot, louse, creep, rat, Brit nasty piece of work, sod, Old-fashioned rotter, bounder, blighter, Slang (rotten) bastard, son of a bitch, Brit toerag, bugger, US SOB, bum, stinkeroo or stinkaroo, Taboo slang shit, Brit arse-hole, US ass-hole: They were a lovely couple, but their son was a real stinker.
STOICAL|9|adj. stoic, impassive, resigned, apathetic, cool, unemotional, emotionless, frigid, imperturbable, calm, dispassionate, indifferent, phlegmatic, long-suffering, stolid, disciplined, self-possessed, (self-)controlled, Colloq unflappable: Bertram remained stoical as the judge read out the sentence of death.
STOPGAP|12|n. 1 makeshift, improvisation, substitute: The wire served as a stopgap until they could get the proper part. --adj. 2 makeshift, temporary, improvised, impromptu, substitute, emergency, provisional, stand-by; jury-rigged: A broomstick served as a stopgap mast for the dinghy's sail.
STOPPER|5|n. stopple, cork, plug, bung: I had problems getting the stopper out of the barrel.
STRATUM|9|n. 1 layer, level, stratification, table, vein, seam; plane: These coal strata have been mined for hundreds of years. 2 level, caste, class, rank, station, standing, status, bracket, group, estate: She married someone from a higher stratum of society.
STRETCH|5|v. 1 extend, reach; span, spread: Her memory stretches back to the first World War. His Texas ranch stretches as far as the eye can see. 2 distend, lengthen, elongate, widen, broaden, swell, draw or pull out, balloon, inflate, enlarge, expand, increase, dilate, blow up: Stretch the netting to cover the frame. 3 overtax, overextend; warp, strain, distort, bend, break: We like to stretch our employees in this company. He is stretching the rules by allowing undergraduates to take his course. --n. 4 elasticity, give, resilience, resiliency, stretchability, stretchiness: There isn't much stretch left in this old rubber band. 5 extent, reach, span, spread, expanse, sweep, area, tract, US section: There is a stretch of desert just south of the coast. 6 time, stint, period, spell, term, tour (of duty), Colloq US and Canadian hitch: He signed up for a two-year stretch in the navy. He once did a six-month stretch in prison for assault.
STRINGY|7|adj. fibrous, chewy, sinewy, gristly, ropy, leathery, tough: The beef was somewhat stringy and the potatoes were overcooked.
STRIPED|10|adj. streaked, lined, striated: Why not wear your striped dress to the party?
STUDIED|9|adj. premeditated, deliberate, calculated, planned, intentional, wilful, well-thought-out, conscious, contrived, feigned, forced, laboured: He treated even the greatest crisis with a studied air of insouciance.
STYLISH|8|adj. chic, fashionable, smart, å la mode, modish, in style or fashion or vogue, elegant; chichi; Colloq in, with it, swanky, Chiefly Brit trendy, Slang swell, neat, classy, snazzy, US spiffy: Nicole always looks so stylish.
STYPTIC|14|adj. astringent: The styptic effect of alum stops bleeding.
SUBDUED|11|adj. 1 quiet, mellow(ed), toned down, moderate(d), tempered, hushed, muted, low-key, unenthusiastic, repressed, restrained, peaceful, tranquil, placid, calm(ed), temperate, reserved: There was a little subdued criticism at first, but the bill was passed. 2 chastened, sober, sobered, solemn, saddened, dejected, sad, down in the mouth, crestfallen, downcast, grave, serious: He looked subdued when he emerged from the headmaster's office.
SUBJECT|18|n. 1 (subject-)matter, topic; issue, theme, angle, thesis, gist, substance, business, affair, point: What is the subject of conversation today? The subject under discussion was of crucial importance. 2 course (of study), field, area, discipline, branch of knowledge: In which subject did Frank take his doctorate? 3 cause, ground(s), motive, reason, basis, source, rationale; excuse: Increased taxes are always a subject of complaint. 4 participant, case, guinea-pig, testee: The subjects of the experiment were all in their thirties. 5 citizen, national; taxpayer, voter; liegeman, vassal: She became a British subject after her marriage to Frank. --adj. 6 Usually, subject to. exposed (to), open (to), vulnerable (to), susceptible (to), prone (to), disposed (to), at the mercy (of), liable (to suffer or undergo): She is subject to asthma attacks. This kind of wood is subject to worm infestation. 7 discussed, under discussion, referred to, above: The subject book was not returned before the due date. 8 subject to. a answerable to, responsible for, bound by, obedient to, subservient to, submissive to, controlled by, under the control of: You are subject to the same laws as everyone else. b dependent on, conditional on, contingent on: All leave is subject to the approval of the departmental head. --v. 9 subject to. expose, lay open, submit, put through, impose on, cause to undergo: How could anyone subject another human being to such cruelty? 10 conquer, subjugate, dominate, subdue, enslave, enthral, crush, humble: The peoples subjected by the Romans sometimes fared better than when independent.
SUBLIME|11|adj. 1 lofty, high, supreme, exalted, elevated, empyrean or empyreal, heavenly, noble, glorious, grand, high-minded; honourable, ennobled, eminent, glorified, beatified, canonized, sanctified, great, good: Her poetry evokes sublime emotions. 2 awesome, overwhelming, inspiring, mind-boggling, overpowering, humbling, awe-inspiring, majestic, splendid, empyrean: The architecture of the cathedral was truly sublime.
SUBSIDE|10|v. 1 sink (down), drop (down), go down, recede, descend, decline; lower, settle: The waters of the swollen river subsided. The volcano's centre subsided, leaving a caldera. 2 abate, quiet(en) (down), calm (down), moderate, let up, decrease, diminish, lessen, die (down or off or out), pass (away), wear off: His enthusiasm for sky-diving subsided a bit after he broke both legs. When the clamour had subsided, the president rose to speak.
SUBSIDY|13|n. funding, financing, subsidizing, sponsoring, sponsorship, assistance, aid, contribution, support, grant, subvention, maintenance, underwriting, capitalization: Farmers are hoping for increased subsidies.
SUBVERT|12|v. overthrow, ruin, destroy, undermine, topple, demolish, wreck, sabotage: The regime was subverted from within, not by outside forces.
SUCCEED|4|v. 1 follow, come after, supervene: The end of the war in the Pacific succeeded the surrender in Europe. 2 be successor (to), follow, be heir (to), replace, take the place of, inherit or take over from: Elizabeth I succeeded Mary in 1558. 3 Often, succeed in or at. make good, thrive, prosper, flourish, be a success, be successful, progress, advance, get ahead or on, attain or gain or achieve success, win, triumph, Colloq make it, arrive, get to the top: Has she succeeded in persuading you to sing? He always wanted to make a lot of money and now he has succeeded. They have succeeded at whatever they have tried.
SUCCESS|3|n. 1 good or happy result or outcome, good fortune, achievement, triumph, attainment, ascendancy, prosperity: The success of the fast food business is evident everywhere. 2 star, celebrity, (big) name, sensation: She was a great success as a singer, dancer, and actress.
SUCCUMB|9|v. yield, give up, give way, surrender, accede, submit, capitulate: I finally succumbed and agreed to their request for help.
SUFFICE|7|v. satisfy, serve, do, be sufficient or enough or adequate, answer, sate, satiate, quench: If you are merely thirsty, water should suffice.
SUFFUSE|5|v. overspread, imbue, pour or spread over, bathe, cover, permeate, pervade, flood, flush, penetrate, saturate, mantle, infuse, transfuse, imbrue or embrue: A rosy glow suffused her face.
SUGGEST|5|v. 1 propose, advance, recommend, urge, advocate, support, offer, proffer, put or set forward, present, mention, introduce: He suggested going out to a pub for dinner. Can you suggest an alternative? 2 call to mind, bring up, hint (at), imply, insinuate, intimate, make one think, lead one to believe, indicate: His silence suggested that this was not the right time to pursue the matter.
SUMMARY|8|n. 1 summarization, recapitulation, encapsulation, compendium, synopsis, digest, abridgement, condensation, shortening, consolidation, epitome, epitomization, review, distillate, conspectus, brief, outline, pr÷cis, r÷sum÷: I want a summary of the meeting on my desk in the morning. --adj. 2 abrupt, peremptory, short, quick, brief, laconic, perfunctory, curt, terse: My simple request for some time off was denied with a summary, 'No!'
SUNLESS|5|adj. dark, grim, cheerless, unhappy, joyless, funereal, depressing, dreary, drear, sombre, gloomy, grey, Stygian, black, pitchy, inky, shadowy, tenebrous, unlit, unlighted, dusky, subfusc or subfuscous, darkling: It was an overcast sunless day, with rain in the offing.
SUPPOSE|5|v. 1 assume, presume, presuppose, surmise, take, take as given or as read, take for granted; believe, think, fancy, imagine; Colloq take it: Don't people usually suppose that civil servants are honest? I supposed her to be his wife. Do you suppose you could return my key today? 2 hypothesize, theorize, postulate, posit, assume: Supposing a reduced rate of inflation, will they reduce interest rates? Suppose that you have lost the election - what will you do?
SURPASS|7|v. exceed, excel, go or pass beyond, outdo, beat, worst, better, best, outstrip, outdistance, outperform, outclass, outshine, eclipse, overshadow, top, cap, transcend, prevail over, leave behind: He easily surpassed the statesmen of his time.
SURPLUS|9|n. 1 surplusage, overage, excess, leftover(s), surfeit, over-abundance, oversupply, overdose, glut: The price of oil dropped owing to the surplus in the market. --adj. 2 excess, leftover, extra, spare, over-abundant, superfluous, unused, redundant: The surplus grain is sold abroad.
SURVIVE|13|v. 1 continue, last, live (on), persist, subsist, pull through, endure: The village was destroyed, but its people survived. 2 outlast, outlive,: At the age of 114, MacMurtagh has survived all his children and many of his grandchildren.
SUSPECT|11|v. 1 disbelieve, doubt, mistrust, distrust, harbour or have suspicions about or of, be suspicious of: Do you suspect the butler? 2 feel, think, believe, sense, have a feeling, fancy, imagine, theorize, guess, surmise, have a sneaking suspicion, think it likely or probable, Colloq expect: I suspect that the butler might have done it. --adj. 3 suspicious, questionable, doubtful, dubious, shady, shadowy; suspected: If you ask me, his behaviour since boarding the Orient Express has been highly suspect.
SUSPEND|10|v. 1 hold up or off (on), withhold, put off, put or hold or keep in or into abeyance, shelve, postpone, delay, defer, interrupt, stop or check or cease or discontinue temporarily, US table: We suspended payment pending inspection of the work already done. Train services on this route will be suspended till further notice. Suspend your disbelief for a moment to consider the possible motive for stealing a prune. 2 hang, attach, fasten, dangle, swing: She suspended the cameo from a gold chain which she wore as a necklace. 3 debar, exclude, eliminate, reject, expel, eject, evict; deprive of the rights of, deny the privileges of; blackball: A member may be suspended if his dues are six months or more in arrears.
SUSTAIN|7|v. 1 uphold, support, keep up, maintain, continue, keep (someone or something) going, keep alive, preserve; prolong, persist in: He has been sustained on a life-support system for weeks. If Georgette can sustain the pretence of loving him, he won't change his will. 2 support, carry, bear, bolster, buoy (up), reinforce, keep (someone) going, strengthen, shore up, underpin, prop up, buttress: During those long months as a hostage, only prayer sustained him. 3 endure, stand, withstand, bear up under, put up with, suffer, undergo, experience, tolerate, weather, brave: It is amazing how much punishment the human body can sustain. 4 bear, carry, support: This column is supposed to sustain the weight of half the building. 5 uphold, recognize, allow, admit, approve, ratify, sanction, authorize, endorse, validate: The judge sustained the objection by the defence.
SWAGGER|8|v. 1 strut, prance, parade, Archaic swash, Colloq US sashay, cut a swath: Look at that Charlie swaggering down the street in his new suit! 2 boast, brag, show off, vaunt, crow, Colloq Brit swank: He is always swaggering on about his war experiences. --n. 3 strut, prance, strutting, swaggering, show, display, showing off, ostentation, braggadocio, arrogance, boastfulness: Paul's outrageous swagger developed only after he was promoted.
SWALLOW|11|v. 1 eat, consume, devour, ingest, dispatch or despatch; drink, gulp, guzzle, down, Colloq put or pack away, swig, swill: Snakes swallow their prey whole. The amount that man can swallow at one meal is incredible. 2 accept, allow, credit, believe, take, Colloq buy, fall for: She swallowed that tale about an aeroplane hook, line, and sinker. 3 Often, swallow up. absorb, make disappear, engulf, consume, assimilate: The fugitive was swallowed up by the crowd. 4 Sometimes, swallow back. keep or choke back or down, repress, suppress, control, stifle, smother, overcome, conquer: Harriet swallowed back the tears. Try swallowing your pride just this once. --n. 5 bite, nibble, morsel, mouthful; drink, gulp, guzzle, Colloq swig: Have a swallow of this to warm you up a little.
SWARTHY|11|adj. swart, black, ebon, ebony, sable, pitch-black, jet-black, coal-black, raven, dark: His swarthy complexion contrasted with her china-like pallor.
SWEETEN|8|v. 1 sugar, sugar-coat: Can you think of nothing that would sweeten the bad news? 2 dress up, make more attractive or agreeable, sugar-coat, embellish, embroider; make less painful, mitigate, alleviate, assuage, lighten, soften, palliate, mollify, ease, allay, moderate, temper: Perhaps the shareholders would be more amenable to the take-over were the buyers to sweeten the offer.
SWIFTLY|16|adv. fast, quickly, speedily, rapidly, expeditiously; briskly, hurriedly, hastily, suddenly, abruptly, in a flash, in a trice, in the wink of an eye, before you can say 'Jack Robinson', before you can say 'knife', like a shot, in an instant, in (less than) no time, precipitately, unexpectedly, Colloq like greased lightning, US lickety-split, in a jiffy, Slang pronto, like a bat out of hell: The assembly is done much more swiftly by machine. Swiftly, I ducked into a doorway to avoid being seen.
SWOLLEN|8|adj. enlarged, distended, inflated, bloated, bulging, puffed up or out, tumid, tumescent, expanded, turgid, puffy, oversized, outsized, Technical dropsical, hypertrophied, proud: My knee was swollen for three days after that knock.
SYMPTOM|16|n. manifestation, evidence, syndrome, mark, token, indication, cue, clue, (warning) sign, characteristic, trait, feature, earmark, marker: Esmeralda is extremely jealous - I recognize the symptoms.
TABLEAU|4|n. scene, sight, spectacle, picture, image; composition, arrangement, grouping, effect: The children raptly listening to their father telling a story - what a charming tableau!
TACTFUL|12|adj. discreet, diplomatic, sensitive, politic, judicious, delicate, clever, prudent, careful, dexterous, discerning, adroit, skilful, acute, perceptive, considerate, understanding, considerate, thoughtful, polite: Even the people working in the complaints department are tactful.
TAKEOFF|9|n. 1 flight, flying, taking off, departure, leaving, going; launch, lift-off: The take-off was delayed by bad weather. 2 satire, lampoon, caricature, mockery, parody, travesty, burlesque, imitation, Colloq spoof, Brit send-up: The annual students' entertainment was as usual a take-off of the teachers.
TANTRUM|9|n. fit (of anger or of passion), outburst, eruption, blow-up, explosion, flare-up, storm, rage, fury, Colloq Brit paddy, wax: He has a tantrum every time he fails to get his own way.
TEDIOUS|5|adj. over-long, long-drawn-out, prolonged, endless, unending, monotonous, unchanging, changeless, unvarying, laborious, long-winded, wearing, wearying, wearisome, tiring, exhausting, fatiguing, tiresome, boring, dreary, dull, dry-as-dust, drab, colourless, vapid, insipid, flat, uninteresting, banal, unexciting, prosaic, prosy, soporific, humdrum, routine, repetitious, repetitive, mechanical, automaton-like, automatic, Colloq ho-hum, Slang dead, US blah: For almost fifty years my father had a tedious job on an assembly line.
TELLING|2|adj. 1 effective, effectual, influential, weighty, important, powerful, forceful, potent, significant, considerable, striking: The new colour scheme in the office has had a telling effect on morale. --n. 2 tattling, (too) revealing, Colloq letting the cat out of the bag, giving away the whole show: I cannot say why her key was found in his pocket - that would be telling.
TEMPEST|11|n. 1 storm, wind-storm, hailstorm, rainstorm, hurricane, typhoon, tornado, cyclone, squall, thunderstorm: The Red Spot on Jupiter is the centre of a perpetual, violent tempest. 2 storm, commotion, disturbance, upheaval, disruption, furore or US furor, turbulence, ferment, tumult, agitation, perturbation, hurly-burly, disorder, outbreak, unrest, riot, chaos, uproar, brouhaha, Colloq hoo-ha: After the tempest of protest died down, a vote was taken and saner heads prevailed.
TENANCY|12|n. occupancy, occupation, possession, tenure: Our tenancy of the house expires next month. The tenancy of this position is a year.
TENSION|7|n. 1 stress, tightness, tautness, strain, pull, traction, pressure, tenseness, force: Can this cable withstand so much tension? 2 nervousness, anxiety, anxiousness, strain, edginess, apprehension, suspense, tautness, distress, upset, worry, jumpiness, fidgetiness, Colloq jitteriness, (a case of) the jitters: I could feel the tension building among the audience.
TENUOUS|4|adj. 1 thin, slender, thin, fine, attenuated, delicate, gossamer, diaphanous, fragile: The spider descended slowly on its tenuous thread. 2 flimsy, insubstantial or unsubstantial, paltry, weak, feeble, frail, meagre, vague, negligible, insignificant, trifling, sketchy, hazy, nebulous, dubious, doubtful, shaky: Your case rests on very tenuous evidence.
TERRIFY|11|v. alarm, frighten, scare, terrorize, shock, make one's flesh crawl or creep, horrify, make one's blood run cold, make one's hair stand on end, stun, paralyse, petrify: Are you trying to terrify the child with those horror stories?
TESTIFY|13|v. state, aver, assert, attest, swear, say, affirm, declare, give evidence or testimony, bear witness, avow, vouchsafe, proclaim, announce: He testified that he saw you there. Is your mother going to testify at the trial? The fingerprints testify to the fact that she was here.
TEXTURE|14|n. feel, surface, character, grain, features, consistency, weave; configuration, nature, structure, fabric, constitution, substance: The material has a rough texture. The texture of the plot is reinforced by the dialogue.
THEATRE|5|n. 1 playhouse, (opera) house, (music-) hall, auditorium, amphitheatre, theatre-in-the-round, coliseum, hippodrome, arena (theatre): A long run in a West End or Broadway theatre is every playwright's dream. 2 drama, stagecraft, dramaturgy, melodrama, theatrics, histrionics, staginess, acting, performing, performance: Even the way Mary serves dinner is pure theatre. 3 the theatre. drama, the stage, dramaturgy, dramatic or Thespian or histrionic art(s), the boards, show business, Colloq showbiz: The theatre is a risky profession. 4 area, arena, scene, sphere or place or field of action, setting: In which theatre of war did you serve?
THEOREM|7|n. 1 hypothesis, proposition, assumption, conjecture, thesis, postulate: He has set forth a clever proof of the binomial theorem. 2 statement, dictum, rule, deduction, formula, axiom, principle: After a lifetime of experience, his theorem is that honesty is the best policy.
THICKEN|3|v. coagulate, clot, congeal, jell, gel, set, solidify, stiffen, harden, firm up, cake, incrassate, inspissate: Cornflour can be used to thicken sauces.
THICKET|3|n. copse, brake, grove, covert, wood, Brit spinney: We concealed our horses in the thicket and stole ahead on foot.
THIRSTY|8|adj. 1 parched, dry, dehydrated; arid: I need another drink - I'm really thirsty. The thirsty land welcomes the rain. 2 desirous, hungry, avid, eager, ravenous, voracious, burning, greedy, avaricious, hankering, yearning, craving, Colloq itching: The students are thirsty for knowledge and very hard-working.
THOUGHT|9|n. 1 thinking, reflection, reflecting, meditation, meditating, contemplation, contemplating, cogitation, cogitating, musing, pondering, rumination, ruminating, brooding, mental activity, mentation, brown study; brainwork, cerebration, deliberation, deliberating, consideration, considering: She was deep in thought. The solution may require considerable thought. 2 idea, notion, brainstorm, observation: I have a thought that I'd like to share with you. 3 consideration, contemplation, planning, plan, scheme, design, intention, expectation, hope, prospect, anticipation, dream, vision: Any thought of taking a few days off had to be abandoned. 4 thoughtfulness, consideration, kindliness, kind-heartedness, concern, compassion, tenderness, kindness, sympathy, attentiveness, regard, solicitude: I don't need any help, but I appreciate the thought. 5 Often, thoughts. recollection(s), memory or memories, remembrance(s), reminiscence(s): Now and then he comforted himself with thoughts of his happy childhood. 6 intellect, intelligence, reasoning, rationality, ratiocination, reason: Some believe that only humans are capable of thought. 7 bit, trifle, touch, small amount, trace, soupúon, little, tinge: This champagne is a thought too sweet.
THRIFTY|11|adj. economical, careful, prudent, parsimonious, frugal, sparing, scrimping, skimping; penurious, close-fisted, tight-fisted, niggardly, stingy, miserly, penny-pinching, cheap: He talked about the need to save money and be thrifty in every way.
THROUGH|9|prep. 1 because of, on account of, owing to, as a consequence or result of, by virtue of, via, be means of, by way of, with the aid or help of, under the aegis or auspices of, Sometimes non-standard due to: It was through his good graces that I got the appointment. 2 during, throughout, in the course or middle of: The dog barked all through the night. 3 inclusive of, including: When I say 'the third through the sixth' I mean 'including the sixth'. 4 to; into: I went through a lot of trouble to find this book. --adj. 5 Often, through with. done (with), finished (with); at the end of one's tether (with), washing (one's) hands (of): Let me know when you are through. How many times has she sworn she was through with him forever? --adv. 6 by, past: I am just passing through. 7 entirely, through and through, completely, thoroughly, totally, wholly, utterly, fully, to the core, from head to foot or toe, from top to bottom, from stem to stern, from one end to the other, in every way, in all respects: By the time I got home, I was soaked through.
TIGHTEN|4|v. 1 Sometimes, tighten down or up. anchor, fasten, fix, tense, secure: Tighten those last two screws and you're finished. 2 make tighter or tenser or stronger, strengthen: He tightened his grip on my hand. 3 Sometimes, tighten up. make more rigorous or strict or stringent or severe or restrictive, close gaps in: We ought to tighten security at the warehouse. 4 Sometimes, tighten up. tauten, stiffen, tense, close: I felt the noose begin to tighten round my neck.
TIGHTLY|7|adv. closely, tensely, vigorously, rigorously: It was a tightly fought race.
TITULAR|7|adj. nominal, so-called, so-designated, so-styled, self-styled, soi-disant, token, putative, theoretical: He may be the titular head of the company, but his brother is really the boss.
TOPICAL|11|adj. 1 contemporary, current, up to date, timely: Drug addiction is certainly a topical subject. 2 local, superficial: For a minor injury we give a topical, not a general anaesthetic.
TORMENT|9|v. 1 torture, abuse, maltreat, mistreat, distress, agonize, excruciate, crucify, harrow, rack, pain: Hunger tormented his weary body. 2 worry, trouble, plague, annoy, bedevil, vex, harry, badger, hector, harass, pester, nag, persecute, needle, nettle, irk, irritate, bother, torture, afflict, Brit chivvy or chivy or chevy: I was tormented by the suspicion that something was wrong. --n. 3 agony, wretchedness, anguish, distress, misery, pain, woe, painfulness, torture, suffering, curse, hell: How can parents endure the torment of losing a child? 4 worry, vexation, annoyance, harassment, ordeal, persecution, needling, nuisance, bane, irritation, bother, affliction, scourge, torture: For yet another day I had to suffer the torment of their company.
TORRENT|5|n. stream, rush, flood, deluge, effusion, gushing, outburst, outpouring, spate, inundation, flow, overflow, tide, cascade: In minutes the brook became a rushing torrent. They assailed us with a torrent of abuse.
TOTALLY|8|adv. completely, utterly, entirely, fully, unqualifiedly, unconditionally, perfectly, absolutely, thoroughly, wholly, consummately: We then decided on a totally different approach. The weather was totally awful.
TOWARDS|11|prep. 1 toward, in the direction of, to; for, so as to approach or near, on the way or road to: She turned towards me. I'd appreciate a lift if you're going towards Aston Clinton. 2 toward, to, for, as a help to, supporting, promoting, assisting: We welcome any contribution towards the charitable works of our order. 3 toward, near, nearing, close to, approaching, shortly before: Towards the close of day, the cattle wander back to the barns.
TRAFFIC|7|n. 1 movement, conveyance, shipping, transport, freight, Chiefly US transportation: Traffic across the border has resumed. 2 See trade, 1, above: Drug traffic has increased greatly in recent years. --v. 3 See trade, 5, above: The police think that Baines is trafficking in stolen goods.
TRAITOR|7|n. turncoat, Judas, quisling, betrayer, renegade, fifth-columnist, US Benedict Arnold, Colloq double-crosser, snake in the grass, double-dealer, two-timer: Some traitor in their midst had revealed their plans to the enemy.
TRANSIT|7|n. 1 moving, movement, travel, travelling, motion, passing, progress, progression, transition; passage, traverse, traversal, traversing: We were unable to mail any letters while we were in transit. The overland transit of the island took three days. 2 transport, transportation, carriage, haulage, cartage, conveyance, transfer, transference, transferral, transmittal: The transit of the merchandise will be handled by our regular shipping company. --v. 3 cross, traverse, go or move or pass or travel across or over or through: They were advised to check with authorities of every country visited or transited during their journey.
TRIBUTE|9|n. 1 honour, homage, recognition, celebration, respect, esteem, testimonial, compliment, encomium, acknowledgement, acclaim, acclamation, commendation, praise, kudos, laudation, panegyric, eulogy, glorification, exaltation: No greater tribute could be bestowed than recognition by one's fellows. 2 tax, exaction, impost, duty, excise, levy, dues, assessment, tariff, charge, surcharge, payment, contribution, offering, gift; ransom; tithe, Peter's or Peter pence: In exchange for their freedom, the king demanded an annual tribute of a thousand oxen.
TRICKLE|5|v. 1 drip, drop, dribble, drizzle, run, flow, spill; ooze, seep, leak, exude: The water trickled onto the floor. Blood is trickling from the wound. --n. 2 drip, seepage, spill, dribble, runnel, runlet, rivulet: A tiny trickle of saliva appeared at the corner of his mouth.
TRIUMPH|14|n. 1 victory, conquest, success, achievement, accomplishment, attainment, coup, ascendancy: The discovery of the drug was perhaps the greatest of his many triumphs. 2 exultation, rejoicing, exulting, elation, delight, rapture, exhilaration, jubilation, happiness, joy, celebration, glory: There was great triumph on winning the World Cup. --v. 3 Often, triumph over. win, succeed, carry the day, be victorious, gain a victory, take the honours, thrive, dominate, prevail; defeat, beat, rout, vanquish, best, conquer, overcome, overwhelm, subdue: Does justice always triumph? The book is about how man triumphed over pain.
TUITION|7|n. education, teaching, tutelage, training, schooling, instruction, guidance, preparation: The course fees cover tuition and accommodation.
TUNEFUL|10|adj. melodic, musical, sweet-sounding, melodious, euphonious, dulcet, mellifluent, mellifluous, harmonic, catchy, mellow, smooth, rich, rhythmic, Colloq easy on the ear(s): Irving Berlin wrote some of the most tuneful music that we have.
TURNOFF|5|n. 1 exit, side-road, feeder (road), auxiliary (road), ramp, Brit slip-road, US (exit or entrance) ramp: Our shop is at the first turn-off after the traffic light. 2 damper, killjoy, Colloq wet blanket, Slang US freeze-out: It was a real turn-off to discover that his hobby was model railways.
TURNOUT|7|n. 1 assemblage, muster, attendance, audience, crowd, gate, throng, gathering: The turnout for the first day of the sale was enormous. 2 output, production, out-turn, volume; gross national product, GNP, gross domestic product, GDP: Turnout has improved since the settlement of the labour dispute. 3 gear, outfit, clothing, apparel, apparatus, equipment, trappings, fittings, equipage: Have you seen Charlie in his mountain-climbing turnout?
TWINKLE|14|v. 1 scintillate, sparkle, coruscate, glitter, shimmer, wink, flicker, glisten, glint, flash, fulgurate, spark, dance, blink, shine, gleam: The stars were twinkling in the icy black sky. Nicole's eyes twinkled as she told me about Max's latest success. --n. 2 twinkling, scintillation, scintillating, sparkle, sparkling, coruscation, coruscating, glitter, glittering, shimmer, shimmering, winking, flicker, flickering, glistening, glint, flash, flashing, fulguration, spark, sparking, dancing, blinking, shine, shining, gleam, gleaming, dazzle, dazzling: From far off, I caught the twinkle of the sun on car windscreens.
TWITTER|8|v. 1 peep, cheep, tweet, chirp, warble, trill, chirrup, chatter: The birds twitter so loudly that they wake me every morning. 2 chatter, prattle, gossip, giggle, prate, titter, snicker, snigger, simper: I was embarrassed because my classmates always twittered when I did a recitation. --n. 3 peep, peeping, cheep, cheeping, twittering, tweet, tweeting, chirrup, chirruping, chirp, chirping, warble, warbling, trill, trilling: The twitter of the birds was driving me mad. 4 ado, bustle, excitement, flutter, dither, whirl, agitation, Colloq stew, tizzy: The girls were in a twitter of apprehension.
TYPICAL|14|adj. 1 representative, characteristic, conventional, normal, standard, ordinary, regular: On a typical day I get up at 6.30. 2 orthodox, classic, conventional, in character, in keeping, usual, commonplace, run-of-the-mill, natural, customary, common, to be expected, ordinary: His way of looking at life is typical for someone of his educational and social background.
TYRANNY|11|n. autocracy, Fascism, authoritarianism, absolutism, despotism, dictatorship, Stalinism, Nazism; arbitrariness, oppression, suppression, subjugation, enslavement, enthralment, domination: Tyranny would not survive long were it not expedient for its supporters.
UMPTEEN|9|adj. a lot of, many, innumerable, unnumbered, countless, a huge number of, very many, numerous, hundreds of, thousands of, millions of, billions of, trillions of: You've been told umpteen times, 'Don't go near the water'.
UNASKED|12|adj. uninvited, unrequested, undemanded, unsolicited, unsought, unwanted, unprompted, gratuitous, unbidden, spontaneous, unwelcome, unasked for: I wish he would keep his unasked opinions to himself.
UNAWARE|10|adj. ignorant, oblivious, unknowing, unsuspecting, unconscious, uninformed, unenlightened, incognizant, inobservant, insensible, heedless, unmindful, unsuspecting: She was totally unaware of the huge spider dangling directly over her.
UNDERGO|9|v. suffer, bear, endure, experience, live or go through, be subjected to, subject oneself to, sustain, submit to, weather, stand, withstand: The hotel has recently undergone extensive refurbishing.
UNDOING|5|n. 1 ruin, ruination, destruction, devastation, defeat, downfall, overthrow, fall, collapse, descent, debasement, degradation, abasement, mortification, humiliation, shame, disgrace: It is not easy to identify the factors that brought about the demagogue's undoing. 2 curse, misfortune, bane, affliction, trouble, blight: As the novelists would have it, a beautiful woman was his undoing.
UNGODLY|12|adj. 1 wicked, sinful, impious, blasphemous, heretical, irreligious, iconoclastic, atheist(ic), anti-religious, sacrilegious, demonic, demoniac(al), diabolic(al), satanic, fiendish, hellish, infernal; depraved, godless, corrupt, immoral, evil, iniquitous, bad, villainous, heinous, flagitious, profane, vile: The crusaders believed that they had a duty to deliver Jerusalem from the ungodly heathens. 2 awful, outrageous, indecent, monstrous, nasty, dreadful, terrible, appalling, frightful, shocking, Colloq God-awful, unearthly, Brit beastly: Margot and I were subjected to another ungodly evening at the Dawsons'.
UNHAPPY|11|adj. 1 sad, depressed, blue, dejected, melancholy, despondent, downcast, gloomy, downhearted, dispirited, heavy-hearted, long-faced, disconsolate, sorrowful, miserable, crestfallen, cheerless, forlorn, low-spirited, glum, distressed, tearful, Formal lachrymose, Colloq down, Slang US bummed out: Mary is very unhappy that John is to be away a whole month. 2 unlucky, unfortunate, unpropitious, inauspicious, unfavourable, luckless, hapless, cursed, wretched, ill-omened, ill-fated, ill-starred, star-crossed, jinxed, disastrous: Let me tell you how this unhappy state of affairs came about. 3 infelicitous, unfitting, inappropriate, unsuitable, unsuited, wrong, inexpedient, ill-advised, poor, unfortunate: Vivian was an unhappy choice as his successor.
UNIFORM|12|adj. 1 homogeneous, consistent, unvaried, unchanged, unaltered; unvarying, unchanging; invariable, unchangeable, unalterable, regimented, standard; ordered, orderly, equal, even, like, identical; alike: The mixture is uniform throughout. The rules are uniform for everyone. Line up in ten uniform rows of ten each. 2 even, unbroken, smooth, regular, flat: Not one irregularity marred the uniform surface of the plain. --n. 3 livery, habit, regalia, costume, outfit; regimentals: When I next saw him, he was in the uniform of a Gestapo officer.
UNKEMPT|15|adj. dishevelled, uncombed, tousled, disarranged, ungroomed, wind-blown, untidy, disordered, mussed (-up), messy, messed-up, bedraggled, shaggy, scruffy, rumpled, slovenly, frowzy, blowzy, Archaic draggle-tailed, Colloq sloppy: Mother would refuse to allow us to the table if we were unkempt.
UNKNOWN|14|adj. 1 unrecognized, unfamiliar, strange, unnamed, anonymous, nameless, unidentified; obscure, unheard-of, little-known, humble, undistinguished, unsung: Some unknown person left this package for you. Bill is in some unknown place for the weekend. An unknown poet won the competition. 2 unfamiliar, unexplored, uninvestigated, unresearched, unrevealed, mysterious, uncharted, unidentified, dark: We were now going into unknown territory. 3 unbeknownst, untold, unrevealed: Unknown to me, the thieves were at that moment breaking in through the kitchen window.
UNMOVED|13|adj. cool, aloof, calm, collected, unaffected, untouched, unsympathetic, unstirred, undisturbed, apathetic, stoic(al), impassive, dispassionate, unemotional, unfeeling, unconcerned, indifferent, unreactive, unresponsive, stolid, stony, adamant, stony-hearted, hard-hearted: Despite her child's tears, she remained totally unmoved.
UNNERVE|8|v. upset, agitate, perturb, ruffle, fluster, rattle, discomfit, unsettle, disconcert, dismay, intimidate, stun, stupefy, Colloq shake (up), faze: Peter drove home slowly: the accident he had seen had unnerved him.
UNSOUND|8|adj. 1 weak, feeble, frail, rickety, shaky, ramshackle, infirm, unstable, wobbly, tottering, unsteady, broken-down, crumbling, disintegrating, dilapidated, defective, imperfect, faulty, decayed, rotten: The building inspector condemned the structure as unsound and unsafe. 2 unhealthy, diseased, ill, afflicted, in poor health, ailing, sickly, sick, unwell, delicate, injured, wounded: The attack of flu left him unsound in wind and limb. 3 insane, mad, psychotic, unbalanced, unstable, demented, deranged: The doctors said that she was still of unsound mind and ought not be released. 4 illogical, faulty, flawed, fallacious, untenable, invalid, groundless, unfounded, erroneous, defective, specious: We thought that his arguments were unsound, so we rejected his recommendations.
UNTRIED|8|adj. untested, unproved or unproven, new: He may be good at homes, but he is as yet untried as the designer of a library.
UNUSUAL|7|adj. uncommon, exceptional, atypical, untypical, different, unexpected, singular, out of the ordinary, extraordinary, odd, peculiar, curious, bizarre, strange, queer, remarkable, unique, freakish, unprecedented, unconventional, unorthodox, Slang off-the-wall: It takes an unusual person to be as charitable as Jean. Don't you agree that an egg-laying mammal is a bit unusual?
UPBRAID|12|v. scold, rebuke, reprimand, reproach, berate, castigate, chastise, reprove, chide, censure, take to task, Colloq tell off, tick off, dress down, give a dressing-down, give (someone) a piece of (one's) mind, tell (someone) a thing or two, rake (someone) over the coals, jump on or all over, bawl out, US chew out: The boys were soundly upbraided for going near the railway tracks.
UPRIGHT|6|adj. 1 erect, perpendicular, vertical, on end, straight up and down, plumb, stand-up, standing up, Brit upstanding: Few upright columns of the Greek temple remained. 2 moral, principled, high-minded, ethical, virtuous, upstanding, straight, righteous, straightforward, honourable, honest, just, trustworthy, unimpeachable, uncorrupt(ed), incorruptible, decent, good: David had long been an upright member of the church council. --n. 3 post, pole, column, vertical, perpendicular: We need another upright to support the floor over here. --adv. 4 perpendicularly, vertically, upward(s), straight up (and down): The javelin was sticking upright out of the ground. 5 right side up: Miraculously, the platter with the roast on it landed upright on the floor.
URGENCY|13|n. imperativeness, pressure, stress, extremity, importance, seriousness, importunity, necessity, need, insistence, exigency, emergency: She was told to ring back as a matter of some urgency.
USELESS|5|adj. 1 ineffective, ineffectual, unserviceable, impractical, impracticable, unpractical, unavailing, vain, pointless, purposeless, idle, futile, unproductive, unsuccessful, impotent, effete, sterile, barren, abortive, unusable, bootless, worthless, Rare inutile: The treatment that she tried was quite useless. 2 inefficient, incompetent, unproductive, ineffectual, ineffective, hopeless, inept: My dachshund has proved totally useless as a watchdog.
USUALLY|8|adv. customarily, as a rule, generally (speaking), most of the time, for the most part, most often, mostly, almost always, inveterately, on the whole, normally, commonly, regularly, predominantly, chiefly, all things considered, in the main, mainly, by and large, as usual, Colloq as per usual: I usually walk home from the office. Johnson usually interviews applicants in the morning.
UTTERLY|8|adv. completely, perfectly, absolutely, thoroughly, fully, entirely, wholly, unreservedly, totally, unqualifiedly, out-and-out, altogether, overwhelmingly, unequivocally, categorically, definitely, properly; extremely, Brit dialect proper; (with) no holds barred, body and soul, head over heels: The proposal was utterly defeated in the Commons. That was an utterly foolish act. She gave herself to him utterly.
VACANCY|17|n. 1 emptiness, void, gap, lacuna, hiatus, blank, deficiency, opening, breach, vacuum: Only after she left did Hubert sense the vacancy in his life. 2 (job) opening, slot, position, post, situation: Her promotion created a vacancy in the personnel department. 3 blankness, emptiness, vacuity, absent-mindedness, inanity, vacuousness, incomprehension, fatuity, unawareness: I knew by the vacancy of his look that he hadn't any idea of what I was talking about.
VAGUELY|14|adv. 1 distantly, remotely, indefinitely, dimly, subliminally, subconsciously, inexplicably: I became vaguely aware of another presence in the room. 2 ambiguously, imprecisely, inexactly, unclearly, confusedly, confusingly, hazily, fuzzily, nebulously, obscurely: Kenston claims that he expresses his theories vaguely to allow for broad interpretation. 3 idly, vacantly, detachedly, absent-mindedly, dreamily, absently, distractedly: Manton listened only vaguely to the judge's words.
VARIANT|10|n. 1 alternative, modification, variation: 'Labor' is an American spelling variant of 'labour'. --adj. 2 varying, variable, changing, altering, unstable, deviant, deviating, different, differing; separate, distinct: It is claimed that the law is given variant interpretations depending on the social standing of the suspect.
VARIETY|13|n. 1 diversity, diversification, multifariousness, multiplicity, number, range, assortment, medley, mixture, mix, miscellany, heterogeneity, choice, selection, collection: Don't you find that the variety of foods in supermarkets today is astonishing? There was certainly a wide variety of people at their party. 2 difference, heterogeneity, discrepancy, diversity, disparity, variation, contrast: The flora and fauna of Australia display great variety. 3 sort, brand, make, mark, kind, class, category, breed, type, order, genre, species, genus, classification, strain: Which variety of washing powder do you prefer? Rex cultivated only the rarest varieties of orchid.
VARIOUS|7|adj. 1 different, a number of, a variety of, diversified, diverse, several, many, numerous, sundry, heterogeneous, miscellaneous, Literary divers: We are considering various offers for the painting. Catherine held various executive positions in the company. 2 different, distinct, individual: There are various ways of looking at the problem.
VEHICLE|15|n. 1 conveyance: The police report that two vehicles were damaged in the crash. 2 means, channel, mechanism, carrier, conduit, agency, instrument: Water is the vehicle used in many sprays.
VENTURE|10|n. 1 risk, chance, hazardous undertaking, experiment, speculation, gamble, plunge, fling: Their new publishing venture turned out to be quite a success. --v. 2 dare(say), make bold, hazard, volunteer, tender, offer, broach, advance, proffer, put forward: Ambrose ventured some nasty remark and was asked to leave. 3 jeopardize, risk, endanger, hazard, imperil; gamble, bet, wager, plunge, put down: Thomas ventured his last chip on the number four.
VERSION|10|n. 1 form, variant, variation, type, model, style, kind, variety, manifestation, portrayal, adaptation, rendition, interpretation, adaptation, construct, construction, conception, idea: This is yet another modern designer's version of 1920s' and 1930s' art deco. 2 story, account, rendering, rendition, translation, interpretation, reading, understanding, view, side: Simon's version of what happened is completely distorted.
VESTIGE|11|n. trace, suggestion, soupúon, hint, glimmer, inkling, suspicion, sign, evidence, mark, token, scent, whiff, tinge, taste; remnant, scrap, fragment, memorial, residue, relic, remains: Vestiges of an ancient city have been found in the sea off Cyprus.
VETERAN|10|n. 1 old hand, past master, old-timer, trouper, Colloq warhorse: Barlow was a veteran of twenty years' experience in the service. --adj. 2 experienced, practised, seasoned, mature, long-serving, battle-scarred: Did it never occur to this veteran politician that there are degrees of misconduct?
VIBRATE|12|v. quiver, shiver, shudder, fluctuate, quake, shake, tremble, throb, pulsate, oscillate, pulse, reverberate, resonate, Brit judder: The house began to vibrate, the windows rattled, and the dishes danced off their shelves.
VICIOUS|5|adj. 1 immoral, unprincipled, amoral, barbarous, corrupt, evil, bad, base, depraved, vile, atrocious, execrable, degraded, degrading, degenerate, venal, iniquitous, heinous, odious, perverted, nefarious, wicked, flagitious, devilish, diabolic(al), fiendish, monstrous, profligate, shameful, shameless, abominable, sinful: The vicious, bloody dictatorship on the island lasted only a dozen years. 2 malicious, spiteful, mean, nasty, hateful, malevolent, malignant, bitter, acrimonious, rancorous, venomous, vindictive, defamatory, slanderous, scandalous, Slang rotten, bitchy: When they argued, they said terribly vicious things to one another. 3 savage, wild, untamed, ferocious, fearful, brutal, fierce, fiendish, bestial, feral, brutish, ravening, Literary fell: The local children were terrified of his vicious Rottweiler.
VICTORY|15|n. triumph, conquest, supremacy, superiority, success, overcoming, mastery, winning, quelling, crushing: Alexander's victory over Darius at Arbela was one of the decisive battles of history.
VILLAIN|8|n. wretch, evil-doer, criminal, miscreant, blackguard, rogue, rascal, cad, scallywag or scalawag, malefactor, scoundrel, dog, cur, viper, reptile, snake in the grass, rat, Archaic rapscallion, Literary knave, caitiff, Colloq Brit bounder, blighter, Slang bastard, son of a bitch, Brit rotter, US SOB or s.o.b. (= 'son of a bitch'): The villain of the film is a smooth-talking charmer who swindles old ladies out of their savings.
VINTAGE|11|n. 1 year, crop, harvest, origin, generation: Which vintage is the better for Bordeaux, 1949 or 1954? --adj. 2 quality, choice, superior, better, good, select, best, classic; aged, seasoned, mature(d), mellow(ed): Mark has become an expert in vintage wines. 3 antiquated, old-fashioned, old-fogyish or old-fogeyish, antique, bygone, old-time, collector or collector's, Colloq over the hill: Claud used to drive his vintage car to work every day.
VIOLATE|10|v. 1 break, breach, disobey, disregard, contravene, infringe, ignore: He habitually violated the law by carrying a pistol. 2 dishonour, desecrate, profane, defile, degrade, debase, treat irreverently: Vandals were found to have violated the sacred shrine. 3 rape, debauch, ravish, ravage, molest, attack, assault, outrage: The victim identified the man who had violated her.
VIRTUAL|10|adj. effective, essential; practical, understood, accepted: In rush hours, the motorway traffic comes to a virtual standstill.
VISIBLE|7|adj. 1 seeable, perceivable, perceptible, discernible, detectable, discoverable, noticeable, unmistakable or unmistakeable, clear, obvious, observable; visual: The visible part of the energy spectrum is relatively small. The entrance holes to their burrows were clearly visible. 2 obvious, conspicuous, evident, apparent, prominent, manifest, distinct, patent, well-defined, identifiable: The consequences of the Act of Union of 1707 are still visible in Scotland today.
VISITOR|10|n. caller, guest, company; visitant: May I phone you back after my visitors have gone?
VITIATE|10|v. 1 spoil, ruin, harm, impair, mar, sully, corrupt, pervert, contaminate, adulterate, weaken, degrade, downgrade, depreciate, diminish, depress, vulgarize, lower, reduce, undermine: Words appropriated from other languages tend to enrich rather than vitiate modern English. 2 debase, deprave, pervert, corrupt, demoralize, defile: Despite other strengths his entire character was vitiated by overriding avarice. 3 invalidate, destroy, delete, cancel, nullify, annul, revoke, void, abrogate, abolish, withdraw, quash, suppress: The invoice was effectively vitiated by the plaintiff's failure to deliver the goods.
VOLUBLE|7|adj. talkative, glib, fluent, loquacious, garrulous, chatty, profuse, gossipy, exuberant, long-winded, bombastic, windy, wordy, Colloq blessed with the gift of the gab: He is the House of Commons' most voluble advocate of capital punishment.
WAKEFUL|17|adj. 1 awake, sleepless, waking, unsleeping, restless, restive, insomniac: The children were wakeful the entire night in anticipation of a visit from Santa Claus. 2 watchful, (on the) alert, on the qui vive, sharp, attentive, vigilant, wary, cautious, observant, heedful, on the lookout: We remained wakeful, alert to any footstep.
WANTING|7|adj. 1 deficient, inadequate, not up to par or expectations, insufficient, leaving much to be desired, unsatisfactory, unsatisfying, disappointing, second-rate, inferior, poor, shabby, shoddy, flawed, faulty, imperfect, incomplete, unfinished, defective, patchy, impaired, damaged, broken, unsound: These robots were tested at the factory and were found wanting. 2 absent, missing, lacking, short (of), US and Canadian shy (of): What good is a banjo wanting its strings?
WARNING|7|n. 1 caution, admonition, advice, counsel, caveat, word (to the wise), tip, notification, notice, threat; lesson, example: Cyril never took seriously his doctor's warning about his cholesterol level. Let that be a warning to you not to drink and drive. 2 omen, sign, signal, indication, augury, foretoken, portent, foreshadowing, forewarning, prophecy: Sailors take that kind of sky and a falling barometer as warning of a hurricane.
WARRANT|8|n. 1 authorization, sanction, reason, justification, approval, validation, licence, right, certification, entitlement, grounds, cause, rationale, basis, assurance, carte blanche, guarantee, pledge, security, charter, warranty: We demand to know what warrant may exist for such an action. 2 writ, order, affidavit, paper, document, credential, permit, entitlement, licence, permit, summons, subpoena, mandate, decree, fiat, edict, ukase: Do not let them search the premises without a warrant. A warrant has been issued for her arrest. --v. 3 guarantee, promise, assure, ensure or insure, answer for, be answerable for, certify, vouch for, underwrite, back up, uphold, stand by or behind: All these products are warranted by the manufacturer for one year. 4 authorize, sanction, justify, explain, approve, verify, validate, permit, allow, provide or offer grounds or justification or cause or reason for, call for, necessitate, entitle, empower, excuse, license: What is it that warrants such accusations of malfeasance?
WASPISH|10|adj. irascible, bad-tempered, foul-tempered, temperamental, testy, grouchy, sensitive, volatile, querulous, edgy, petulant, spiteful, peevish, cantankerous, curmudgeonly, cross, crabby, crabbed, crotchety, splenetic, grumpy, captious, cranky, crusty: Elaine is feeling very waspish today - no one can do anything right.
WEDDING|5|n. 1 marriage (ceremony), wedding ceremony, nuptials; confarreation: Our son's wedding was attended by members of the royal family. 2 combining, combination, uniting, union, joining, juncture, blending, blend, allying, alliance, associating, association, marrying, marriage, merging, merger, mingling, intermingling, commingling, coalescing, coalescence, mixing, mixture, intermixing, amalgamating, amalgamation, compounding, compound, alloying, alloy, fusing, fusion, homogenizing, homogenization: Through her wedding of vision to observation she has produced some truly remarkable paintings.
WEIGHTY|10|adj. 1 heavy, ponderous, massive, huge, bulky, substantial, ample, large, mammoth, colossal, immense, enormous, gigantic, prodigious; corpulent, fat, obese, adipose, Colloq hefty: I found myself face to face with a rather weighty gentleman who was blocking the doorway. 2 important, consequential, significant, momentous, grave, crucial, portentous, thought-provoking, provocative: These are weighty matters and should be handled with circumspection. 3 influential, convincing, persuasive, impressive, telling, powerful, potent, leading; forceful: Weighty arguments have been put forward in support of these proposals.
WELCOME|14|v. 1 greet, hail, meet, receive, accept, offer hospitality (to): Everywhere she went she was welcomed with open arms. --adj. 2 accepted, acceptable, well-received, desirable, agreeable, gratifying, appreciated: Norma is always a welcome guest at my house. Ice cream was a welcome relief from the perennial plum duff. 3 freely permitted or allowed, invited, entitled, suffered: At that hotel, guests are welcome to dine when they please. --n. 4 reception, greeting, salutation: We gave the ambassador a warm welcome.
WELFARE|13|n. benefit, good, advantage, well-being, prosperity, (good) fortune, profit, interest, (good) health, happiness, felicity: It is up to the parents to look after their children's welfare.
WELLFED|12|adj. plump, chunky, thickset, chubby, rounded, rotund, portly, stout, fleshy, overweight, adipose, fat, obese, gross, Brit podgy or US pudgy: On the westward crossing we were seated with a well-fed Austrian couple.
WELLOFF|6|adj. comfortable, wealthy, rich, affluent, prosperous, well-to-do, Colloq well-heeled, US well-fixed: They are well off and live in a charming house on the edge of the Cotswolds.
WELSHER|8|n. non-payer, cheat, cheater, swindler, Slang dead-beat, US welcher: That welsher never paid the money he lost to me at poker.
WHEEDLE|4|v. coax, cajole, inveigle, charm, beguile, persuade, talk; butter up; Colloq con, sweet-talk: Irena always managed to wheedle someone into taking her dancing.
WHITTLE|3|v. 1 pare (down or away), shave, trim, cut, carve, hew, shape: Remember when Grandpapa used to whittle those tiny figures of elves when we were children? 2 Usually, whittle away at or down. pare, shave, cut, trim, reduce, diminish, erode, eat away at: If he keeps whittling away at his trust fund, he might have to get a job.
WILLING|5|adj. agreeable, acquiescent, compliant, amenable, consenting, assenting, passive, complaisant, docile, ready, well-disposed, happy, content, pleased, delighted, enthusiastic, avid, eager, zealous, Colloq game: Albert might not have thought up the pranks, but he was a willing accomplice.
WILLOWY|14|adj. 1 lissom or lissome, pliant, lithe, flexible, supple, limber, loose-limbed: Everyone enjoys watching the willowy athletes training for the Olympics. 2 slim, slender, graceful, sylphlike, svelte, thin, long-limbed, clean-limbed: How does Jeanne keep her willowy figure without dieting?
WINNING|5|adj. 1 engaging, attractive, alluring, captivating, endearing, prepossessing, winsome, bewitching, fetching, taking, enchanting, pleasing, delightful, charming, amiable, friendly, pleasant, sweet: Maggie's winning ways are a tremendous asset to making friends. 2 triumphant, conquering, victorious, successful: The winning team is invited to dine at the Red Lion.
WISEGUY|14|n. wiseacre, smart alec or aleck, Archaic witling, Colloq know-all or know-it-all, Brit Clever Dick or cleverdick, Slang smarty-pants, smarty, Brit smart-arse, US smart-ass, wisenheimer: There's always some wise guy waiting to make a clever remark.
WITNESS|8|n. 1 observer, onlooker, spectator, viewer, eyewitness, bystander, watcher, Rare earwitness: Were you a witness to what took place here? 2 deponent, testifier, corroborating witness, corroborator: The defence will call its witnesses today. 3 bear witness (to or of). testify (to), attest (to), be or give or provide or furnish or constitute evidence or proof or testimony (of or to), verify, confirm, corroborate, show, prove: The bent poker bears witness to the violence of the attack. --v. 4 see, observe, watch, look on or at, view, behold, mark, note, notice, take in, Colloq spot, catch: I did witness the way they looked at each other. 5 countersign, sign, certify, endorse, substantiate, document, certificate: Would you mind witnessing our signatures, Miss Cabot? 6 See 3, above.
WIZENED|20|adj. wrinkled, shrunken, shrivelled (up), withered, gnarled, dried up, wilted, faded, wasted: The wizened old crone is his grandmother.
WORDING|8|n. phraseology, language, phrasing, choice of words, word choice: From the confused wording of this note I cannot tell whether you are coming to my party or not.
WORLDLY|14|adv. 1 mundane, earthly, terrestrial, temporal, physical, carnal, fleshly, corporeal, human; lay, non-spiritual, non-religious, civic, secular, profane: Theo indulged in worldly pleasures in the fleshpots of the continent. Veronica put aside worldly things and took the veil. 2 urbane, suave, sophisticated, cosmopolitan, worldly-wise, Slang with it, hip, cool: Behind that worldly manner is the heart of a peasant.
WORRIED|9|adj. fearful, apprehensive, anxious, distressed, nervous, uneasy, anguished, disquieted, agonized, agonizing, distraught, on edge, on tenterhooks, ill at ease, troubled, fretful, agitated, perturbed, upset, suffering: The two worried mothers waited at the police station for news of their children.
WORSHIP|10|v. 1 venerate, revere, reverence, extol, honour, exalt, praise, admire, adore, adulate, glorify, deify, idolize, be devoted to, pay homage to, bow down before, kneel before, put on a pedestal: When he arrived, he found the people worshipping huge stone idols. --n. 2 veneration, reverence, adoration, devotion, homage, honour, respect, esteem, exaltation, praise, admiration, adulation, glorification, deification, idolatry: A healthy respect for security should not be confused with the worship of money.
WRAPPER|3|n. 1 housecoat, robe, dressing-gown, bathrobe, kimono, negligee, lounging robe, peignoir, US house-dress: Peggy threw on a wrapper and went to answer the door. 2 envelope, package, packing, wrapping, covering, jacket, case, casing, container: Throw the wrapper in the dustbin.
WRESTLE|5|v. battle, fight, struggle, tussle, strive: After thirty years Garth wrestled his way to the top in the company.
WRIGGLE|3|v. 1 wiggle, wobble, shake, tremble, quiver, jiggle, waggle, writhe, twist, fidget: She managed to wriggle free of the ropes and run away. The dog was wriggling with excitement at seeing its master. 2 twist, squirm, snake, worm, writhe, slither, crawl: He wriggled through the narrow opening into the strongroom. --n. 3 wiggle, zigzag, wavy line, Colloq squiggle, squiggly line: The page had no writing on it, only a lot of wriggles. 4 wriggling, writhing, squirm, squirming, wiggle, wiggling, shaking, trembling, quiver, quivering, shimmying, waggle, waggling, twisting, twist: Don't confuse that rhythmic wriggle of the hips with dancing.
WRINKLE|9|n. 1 crease, fold, line, furrow, crinkle, crow's-foot, corrugation, pucker, ridge: She hasn't a wrinkle on her face - but then she's only nine. --v. 2 crease, fold, line, furrow, crinkle, corrugate, pucker, gather, ruck, crimp, screw up, rumple, crumple: I love the way you wrinkle your nose when you're perplexed.
WRITING|2|n. 1 handwriting, longhand, penmanship, script, calligraphy or chirography, scribble: I sometimes have trouble reading your writing. 2 Sometimes, writings. (literary) work(s), composition, theme, book, article, critique, criticism, review, editorial, column, expos÷, essay, poetry, poem, novel, non-fiction, fiction, document, letter, correspondence, publication, Chiefly Brit journalism leading article or leader, Chiefly US journalism op-ed article: Her writing has been widely published. Poe's writings are collected in this book. 3 literature, belles-lettres, letters: I don't agree that British writing has declined since 1900.
ABDUCT|11|v. kidnap, carry off, make away or off with, seize, Slang US snatch, grab: The child that was abducted is safe.
ABLAZE|17|adj. 1 aflame, afire, burning, on fire, alight, blazing: By the time the firemen arrived, the roof was ablaze. 2 lit up, alight, brilliantly or brightly-lit, sparkling, gleaming, aglow, bright, brilliant, luminous, illuminated, radiant: The ballroom was ablaze with the light from thousands of candles.
ABOUND|9|v. 1 prevail, thrive, flourish: Disease abounds among the undernourished peoples of Africa. 2 abound in. be crowded or packed or jammed with, be abundant or rich in, proliferate (in or with): The ship abounds in conveniences. 3 abound with. teem or swarm or throng with, be filled or infested with, overflow with: The ship abounds with rats.
ABROAD|9|adv. 1 overseas, in foreign lands or parts: We were abroad on assignment for a few years. 2 broadly, widely, at large, near and far, far and wide, everywhere, extensively, publicly: Don't spread rumours abroad. 3 outside, out of doors, away, out and about: There are few people abroad this early in the morning.
ABSENT|8|adj. 1 away, out, off, elsewhere, not present, missing, gone: Twenty people attended, but Harold was conspicuously absent. 2 missing, lacking, wanting, deficient: All warmth is absent from her singing. --v. 3 absent (oneself) from. keep or stay away from; withdraw or retire from: He absented himself from the court during his father's trial for murder. Absent thee from felicity awhile.
ABSURD|9|adj. 1 ridiculous, silly, nonsensical, senseless, outlandish, preposterous, farcical, mad, stupid, foolish, idiotic, imbecilic or imbecile, moronic, childish; laughable, ludicrous, risible, inane, Colloq crazy, nutty, nuts , Chiefly Brit daft: The notion that the moon is made of green cheese is absurd. 2 asinine, senseless, illogical, irrational, unreasoned, unreasonable, incongruous, paradoxical, unsound, meaningless: Today, most people view it absurd to believe that the earth is flat.
ABUSED|9|adj. 1 misused: Permission to use the office copying machine has become an abused privilege. 2 maltreated, ill-treated, mistreated, hurt: It was explained that he had been an abused child.
ACCENT|4|n. 1 emphasis, stress, force, prominence, accentuation; intensity, inflection; cadence, beat: The accent is on the second syllable in 'reward'. 2 diacritic, diacritical mark, mark, accent mark: There is an acute accent on the 'e' in 'clich÷'. 3 pronunciation, articulation, intonation, speech pattern, inflection: Even after forty years in the country, he still speaks English with an Italian accent. --v. 4 accentuate, emphasize, stress, give prominence to, mark, underline, underscore, distinguish, highlight, set off or apart: In her speech, the psychologist accented the 'id' in 'idiot'. Why must he always accent the negative aspect of everything?
ACCEPT|6|v. 1 receive, take, allow, permit: Sorry, but we cannot accept any more applications. 2 accede (to), agree (to), assent (to), consent (to), acknowledge, admit, allow, recognize: We accept your request for a hearing. 3 assume, undertake, take on or up, agree to bear: I'll accept the responsibility for replying. 4 reconcile oneself to, suffer, undergo, experience, stand, withstand, stomach, endure, bear, resign oneself to, brook, allow, tolerate, take: I think I have accepted enough criticism for one day.
ACCORD|5|v. 1 agree, harmonize, concur, be at one, correspond, agree, be in harmony, be consistent, go (together), coincide, conform: His principles and practices do not accord with one another. --n. 2 agreement, unanimity, concord, reconciliation, harmony, mutual understanding, conformity, accordance, rapport, concert: The countries are in accord on a beneficial trade balance. 3 agreement, treaty, pact, contract: The accords will be signed at the summit meeting in May. 4 agreement, harmony, congruence; correspondence: The colours of the curtains are in perfect accord with those of the carpet.
ACCUSE|4|v. 1 accuse (of or with). blame, censure, hold responsible (for), charge (with), denounce (for), point the finger (at), cite, call to account: She accused the Knave of Hearts of lying. 2 accuse (of or with). charge, indict, impeach, arraign, incriminate; attribute, impute: The prisoner is accused of assault, criminal damage, and disorderly conduct.
ACTION|8|n. 1 activity, performance, movement, motion, energy, liveliness, vim, vigour, spirit, vitality; enterprise, initiative: Being a man of action, he hates just sitting and reading. 2 influence, effect, power, force, strength: The action of the moon's gravitational pull causes tides on earth. 3 deed, act, undertaking, exertion, exercise: The very action of breathing caused me pain. 4 remedy, proceeding, process: If they don't stop beating their dog we shall take action against them. 5 fighting, combat: We saw action in the Far East. 6 fight, battle, engagement, encounter, clash, fray, sortie, skirmish, affray: How many men were lost in last night's action? 7 effect, effectiveness, activity, function, performance, functioning, reaction: What is the action of steroids on the lymph system? 8 actions. behaviour, conduct, deportment, demeanour, ways, manner, manners: She must be held responsible for her actions.
ACTIVE|11|adj. 1 strenuous, vigorous, full, dynamic, physical; energetic, lively, busy, brisk, bustling, occupied, on the move, Colloq on the go, running: She is healthier for having led a very active life. He always seems to be active. 2 acting, effective, efficacious, effectual, working, functioning, operative, potent, influential; powerful: The active ingredient in her medicine is an antihistamine. 3 energetic, lively, hyperactive, animated, spry, nimble, quick, agile, sprightly: There is no keeping up with an active child.
ACTUAL|8|adj. 1 existing, existent, real, genuine, factual, true, authentic, verified, verifiable, true to life, manifest, realized, realistic, Colloq solid: The actual cost of the project turned out to be double the estimate. 2 present, current, existent, real, genuine, physical, tangible: No telescope has detected any actual volcanic eruption on the moon.
ADDICT|6|n. 1 (habitual) user, Slang junkie, dope-fiend, doper, head, pot-head, acid-head, pill popper, tripper, Chiefly US hophead: His contributions helped set up the halfway houses for addicts. 2 devotee, aficionado, fan, admirer, follower, adherent, supporter, enthusiast, Colloq buff, hound, fiend, groupie, Slang freak, bug, nut, teeny-bopper: She became a rock 'n' roll addict in the '60s.
ADJUST|14|v. 1 set right, arrange, settle, harmonize, reconcile, resolve, set or put to rights; arbitrate, mediate; redress, rectify, correct, patch up: Four were named on each side to adjust their differences. 2 change, alter, modify, regulate, set: After he adjusted the pendulum, the clock kept good time. 3 adapt (to), accommodate (oneself) (to), accustom (oneself) (to); get used (to), acclimatize or acclimate (to), reconcile (oneself) (to): If she travels a distance east or west, it takes her a few days to adjust to the local time. Army life was very different, but I was able to adjust quickly. 4 put in order, arrange, rearrange, close or fasten or zip or button (up): She adjusted the children's coats and did up their shoes.
ADVICE|12|n. 1 counsel, guidance, recommendation, suggestion, opinion, view; warning, admonition, Technical parónesis: His solicitor's advice is to say nothing. 2 information, news, intelligence, notice, notification; communication: Advice has reached the police that a shipment of arms will leave Dover tonight.
ADVISE|10|v. 1 counsel, guide, recommend, suggest, commend; caution, admonish, warn; urge, encourage: I advised him to be careful driving at night in that area. 2 tell, announce (to), inform, apprise, register, make known (to), intimate (to), notify: We advised her of our disapproval. The police have advised the defendants of their rights.
AFFAIR|4|n. 1 matter, topic, issue; business, concern, interest, undertaking, activity: These are affairs of state and require the approval of a minister. 2 concern, business, Slang US beeswax: Who wiped the fingerprints off the weapon is none of your affair. 3 event, business, occurrence, happening, proceeding, incident, operation: Last night's farewell party was truly a dull affair. 4 Also, affaire. love affair, amour, romance, intrigue, fling, liaison, relationship, affaire d'amour, affaire de coeur: Lady Constance is having an affair with the gamekeeper.
AFFECT|6|v. 1 attack, act upon, lay hold of, strike: Arthritis has affected his hands and he can no longer play the piano. 2 move, stir, impress, touch, strike; perturb, upset, trouble, agitate: The sportsman was not affected by all the taunts and jeers. 3 influence, sway, change, transform, modify, alter: Her sudden fame has affected her view of herself.
AFFORD|5|v. 1 have the means, be able or rich enough, manage, bear the expense, pay, provide: We cannot afford to send the children to better schools. 2 give, spare, give up, contribute, donate; sacrifice: The loss of a single day's work was more than I could afford. 3 yield, give, supply, produce, provide, furnish, grant, offer; give forth: May kind heaven afford him everlasting rest. The poems afford no explanation.
AFRAID|10|adj. 1 fearful, frightened, scared, intimidated, apprehensive, lily-livered, white-livered, terrified, panic-stricken, faint-hearted, weak-kneed, timid, timorous, nervous, anxious, jittery, on edge, edgy, jumpy; cowardly, pusillanimous, craven, Colloq yellow: Don't be afraid, the dog won't bite you. 2 sorry, unhappy, regretful, apologetic, rueful: I'm afraid I cannot help you find a cheap flat in London.
AGENCY|12|n. means, medium, instrumentality; intervention, intercession, action, intermediation; operation, mechanism, force, power, activity, working(s), energy: Pollen is carried from flower to flower by the agency of certain insects.
ALLEGE|5|v. declare, aver, state, assert, charge, affirm, avow, asseverate, depose, say: The guard alleged that he had caught the boy climbing in a basement window.
ALMOST|8|adv. nearly, about, approximately, practically, virtually, wellnigh, bordering on, on the brink of, verging on, on the verge of, little short of; not quite, all but; barely, scarcely, hardly; Colloq damn near: We are almost ready to go. You almost broke the window!
ALWAYS|12|adv. 1 at all times, again and again, on all occasions, every or each time, each and every time, without exception, unexceptionally; often, many times, usually: He that indulges hope will always be disappointed. I have always made coffee this way and see no reason for changing. 2 forever, continually, ever, perpetually; unceasingly, unendingly, eternally, evermore, ever after, everlastingly, till the end of time, in perpetuity: You are a fool, Mike, and you will always be a fool. 3 in any case, as a last resort: You could always refuse to pay.
AMBUSH|8|n. 1 trap, ambuscade or Archaic ambuscado: The company set up an ambush near the crossroads. --v. 2 lie in wait, trap, waylay, ensnare, entrap, lurk, ambuscade, intercept, Colloq lay in wait, US bushwhack: The guerrillas were ready to ambush the soldiers.
AMENDS|9|n. make amends. compensate, pay, repay, make reparation or restitution, recompense, redress, remedy, requite: How can the bus-driver ever make amends for the loss of a beloved kitten?
AMOUNT|8|v. 1 amount to. a add up to, total, aggregate, come (up) to: Waiter, what does my bill amount to, please? b become, develop into: That son of his will never amount to much. --n. 2 quantity, volume, mass, expanse, bulk, supply, lot; number; magnitude: What amount of water is needed to fill the container? She eats a huge amount of chocolates every day. 3 (sum) total, aggregate, extent, entirety: What is the amount of the invoice without the tax?
AMULET|8|n. charm, talisman, good-luck piece; fetish: Whenever the man rubbed the silver amulet, his number would win.
ANCHOR|4|n. 1 mooring: The ship rode at anchor in the harbour. 2 stability, security, mainstay, support, stabilizer, holdfast, sheet anchor: Marie is an anchor to windward for George, who tends to be a bit irresponsible. --v. 3 attach, affix, secure, moor, fix, fasten; pin, rivet, glue: You must anchor the foundation before adding the walls. She remained anchored to the spot, refusing to move.
ANIMAL|8|n. 1 creature, being, mammal, organism: Scientists are unlikely to employ the popular division of all things into animal, vegetable, or mineral. 2 beast, brute, savage, monster: Think of the poor girl married to that animal! --adj. 3 zoological, zooid, animalistic: The sponge is a member of the animal kingdom. 4 physical, fleshly, sensual, gross, coarse, unrefined, uncultured, uncultivated, rude, carnal, crude, bestial, beastlike, subhuman: His animal appetites occasionally got the better of him.
ANSWER|9|n. 1 reply, response; rejoinder, retort, riposte, Colloq comeback: The boy's answer is unprintable. 2 Law defence, counter-statement, plea, explanation; Technical declaration, plea, replication, rejoinder, surrejoinder, rebutter or rebuttal, surrebutter or surrebuttal: Her answer to the charge was 'Not Guilty'. 3 solution, explanation: Ten points were taken off because I had the wrong answer to question three. --v. 4 reply, respond; retort, rejoin, riposte: When I ask you a question, I expect you to answer. 5 satisfy, fulfil, suffice for, meet, suit, serve, fit, fill, conform to, correlate with: The bequest answered my needs for the moment. 6 answer back. talk back (to): How dare you answer your father back! 7 answer for. a be accountable or responsible or answerable for, be to blame for; take or undertake responsibility for; sponsor, support, guarantee: I answer alone to Allah for my motives. So shall my righteousness answer for me. b make amends for, atone for, suffer the consequences of: Caesar was ambitious and he answered for it with his life. c take or accept the blame for: Andy shouldn't have to answer for his brother's shortcomings.
APPEAL|4|v. 1 entreat, supplicate, solicit, plead, petition, apply, sue; beseech, beg, implore, pray: She appealed to the king to release her son from the dungeon. 2 attract, be attractive to, allure, please; invite, tempt, beguile, fascinate, interest: He seems to appeal to older women. --n. 3 application, suit; entreaty, call, request, supplication, solicitation, petition, plea; prayer: Her appeal to the court has been dismissed. I don't know if God heard our appeal. 4 attraction, lure, allurement, charm, fascination: It is not hard to see why his type would have some appeal.
APPEAR|4|v. 1 come forth, become visible or manifest, put in an appearance, materialize, surface, emerge, rise, arise, come up, enter (into) the picture, show oneself, turn up, arrive, come, Colloq crop or show up; Slang show: Suddenly, a vision appeared before me. His wife appeared after an absence of ten years. 2 perform, act, play, take the role or part of: She has appeared as Roxanne in dozens of productions of Cyrano de Bergerac . 3 occur, happen, come up, be included, figure, arrive: That four-letter word does not appear in written form till the 20th century. 4 seem, be clear or evident or plain or manifest; look: It appears that the money was taken while the manager was at lunch. 5 be published, come out, become available: The next issue will appear in March.
ARDOUR|7|n. eagerness, desire, zeal, fervency, burning desire, keenness, fervour, passion, heat, warmth; enthusiasm: Bernadette has supported the cause with great ardour.
AROUND|7|adv. 1 about, approximately, nearly, almost, roughly; circa: There were around a dozen of us in the place. 2 about, everywhere, in every direction, on all sides, all over, throughout: By this time the savages were all around and we couldn't move. 3 round, about, for everyone or all, US also 'round: I don't think we have enough food to go around. 4 round, about, all about, everywhere, here and there, hither and thither, hither and yon, far and wide: The tinker travelled around selling his wares and repairing pots. --prep. 5 round, about, surrounding, encompassing, enveloping, encircling, on all sides of, in all directions from, enclosing: The fields around the castle were cultivated by tenant farmers. 6 about, approximately, roughly; circa: He was born around the turn of the century.
AROUSE|3|v. 1 awaken, raise (up), wake up, waken, rouse, revive, stir (up): I was aroused by the noise and reached for my pistol. 2 excite, stir up, stimulate, awaken, summon up, spark, Colloq turn on: My suspicions were aroused because she was carrying my umbrella. 3 provoke, encourage, quicken, foster, call forth, stir up, kindle, foment: The song aroused feelings of patriotism among the recruits.
ARREST|4|v. 1 stop, halt, check, stall, forestall, detain, delay, hinder, restrain, obstruct, prevent, block, interrupt: The progress of the train has been arrested. 2 catch, capture, seize, apprehend, take, take in, take into custody, detain, Colloq nab, pinch, collar, bust, run in, Brit nick: Foxworthy was arrested crossing the border. 3 slow, retard, stop: I'm afraid that we have here a case of arrested mental development. --n. 4 seizure, capture, apprehension, detention; restraint, Colloq bust, US collar: The police have made six arrests. 5 stop, stoppage, check, cessation: The doctor said it was a case of cardiac arrest. 6 under arrest. in custody, under legal restraint, in the hands of the law, imprisoned, arrested: You are under arrest for the murder of one Hugh Brown, and anything you say may be used in evidence against you.
ARRIVE|7|v. 1 come, make one's appearance, appear, turn up, Colloq show up; Slang hit (town), blow in: She arrived only two minutes before the plane was to take off. 2 succeed, prosper, get ahead (in the world), reach the top, Colloq make it, make the grade, get somewhere, get there: Yuppies believe that once they own a fur coat and a Mercedes, they've arrived. 3 arrive at. come or get to, reach; attain: I think that Crumley has arrived at the stage in his career where he merits a promotion.
ARTFUL|9|adj. 1 scheming, wily, sly, cunning, foxy, tricky, crafty, deceitful, underhand or underhanded, double-dealing, guileful, disingenuous: That artful fellow managed to sell me a completely useless gadget. 2 ingenious, clever, astute, shrewd, dexterous: She has practised her artful deceptions so long that nobody believes anything she says.
ASPIRE|8|v. aspire to. desire, hope, long, wish, aim, yearn; dream of: I'd never aspire to anything higher. He still aspired to being a full professor.
ASSIGN|5|v. 1 allot, allocate, apportion, consign, appropriate, distribute, give (out), grant: A water ration was assigned to each person. 2 fix, set (apart or aside), settle (on), determine, appoint, authorize, designate, ordain, prescribe, specify: Have they really assigned Thursday as the day of worship? Please sit in the seats assigned to you. 3 appoint, designate, order; name, delegate, nominate, attach; choose, select; Brit second: The men have been assigned to their posts. I assigned David to look after the champagne. 4 attribute, ascribe, accredit, put down; refer: To which century did the curator assign this vase?
ASSIST|4|v. 1 aid, help, second, support: He could walk only if assisted by the nurse. 2 further, promote, abet, support, benefit, facilitate: The rumours will not assist his election. 3 help, succour, serve, work for or with; relieve: She has always assisted the poor.
ASSUME|6|v. 1 accept, adopt, take, use, employ; arrogate, appropriate, take over or up, undertake: Who will assume the leadership of the party? 2 take on (oneself), take upon (oneself), put or try on, don, adopt; acquire: Whenever she delivered the information, she assumed the disguise of an old man. That trivial dispute has assumed gargantuan proportions. 3 presume, suppose, believe, fancy, expect, think, presuppose, take, take for granted, surmise, Chiefly US guess: When I saw the knife in his hand, I assumed the chef was going to slice a lemon. The king assumed he had the cooperation of Parliament. 4 pretend to, feign, sham, counterfeit, simulate, sham, affect, fake: Though she cared deeply, she assumed a devil-may-care attitude.
ASSURE|4|v. 1 secure, stabilize, settle, establish, confirm, certify, warrant, guarantee, ensure, be confident of, make or be sure or certain: Force, fear, and the multitude of his guard do less to assure the estate of a prince than the good will of his subjects. 2 encourage, inspirit, reassure, hearten: Your humanity assures us and gives us strength. 3 convince, persuade, reassure, make (someone) certain; ensure: What can I do to assure you of my love? 4 assert, state, asseverate, promise: I assure you that we shall do everything possible to find your dog.
ASTUTE|6|adj. 1 shrewd, subtle, clever, ingenious, adroit, wily, cunning, calculating, canny, crafty, artful, arch, sly, foxy, guileful, underhand, underhanded; Rare astucious: He had the reputation of being an astute businessman. 2 sharp, keen, perceptive, observant, alert, quick, quick-witted, sage, sagacious, wise, intelligent, insightful, perspicacious, discerning, knowledgeable: That was a very astute comment, Smedley.
ATTACH|2|v. 1 fasten, join, connect, secure, fix, affix; tack or hook or tie or stick on, pin, rivet, cement, glue, bond, solder, weld, braze; unite; Nautical bend: The tag is still attached to your dress. Attach this to the wall. How do I attach the sail to the spar? 2 connect, associate, assign, affiliate, enlist, join, add, subjoin, Brit second: Her brother-in-law has been attached to my regiment. 3 endear, attract: I won't say that we were in love, but I was very closely attached to her. 4 fix, affix, pin, apply, ascribe, assign, attribute, put, place: Why do you attach so much importance to what Dora says? 5 adhere, cleave, stick: Many legends have attached themselves to Charlemagne. 6 seize, lay hold of, confiscate, appropriate: If he cannot meet the mortgage payments the bank will attach his house.
ATTACK|2|v. 1 assail, assault, fall or set or pounce upon; charge, rush, raid, strike (at), storm; engage (in battle), fight; Colloq mug, jump: They were attacked on their way home by a gang of boys. Helicopter gunships were sent out to attack the bunker. 2 criticize, censure, berate; abuse, revile, inveigh against, denounce, condemn, malign, denigrate, decry, disparage, deprecate, vilify: His article attacked the minister for his views on housing. 3 begin, start; approach, undertake: We attacked the meal with gusto. 4 affect, seize; infect: Rheumatism attacks young and old alike. 5 waste, devour, destroy, eat; erode, corrode, decompose, dissolve: Termites have attacked the beams of the house. Watch how the acid attacks the areas on the plate that have not been protected. --n. 6 assault, onset, offensive, onslaught, incursion, raid, strike, inroad, invasion: The enemy responded to our attack with a smokescreen. After capturing the pawn, Karpov launched an attack on the queen. 7 criticism, censure; abuse, denunciation, revilement, denigration, decrial, disparagement, deprecation, vilification: The quarterly's attack is totally uncalled for. 8 seizure, spell, spasm, paroxysm; fit, bout: Preston has had another attack of gout. How do you stop an attack of hiccups? 9 destruction, wasting; erosion, corrosion: Noting the attack on the planks by shipworm, the surveyor declared the vessel unseaworthy. Aluminium will not withstand the attack of the salt air in this area.
ATTEND|5|v. 1 be present (at), go to, be at, appear (at), put in an appearance (at), turn up (at), haunt, frequent; sit in (on), US and Canadian audit: Are you attending the concert? She attends Miss Fiennes's elocution class. 2 turn to, pay attention to, serve, tend to, take care of, deal with, handle, heed, fulfil: I shall attend to your request as soon as possible, Madam. 3 Also, attend to. watch over, wait on or upon, care for, take care of, minister to, occupy oneself with, look after, look out for, devote oneself to: Mrs Atterbury attends the patients in the cancer ward on weekdays. The clergyman has his own flock to attend to. 4 escort, accompany, conduct, convoy, squire, usher, wait upon, follow; chaperon or chaperone: The actress arrived, attended by her entourage of toadies. 5 be associated with, accompany, result in or from, give rise to: A departure in the midst of the battle would be attended by great peril, Milord.
ATTEST|4|v. bear witness (to), bear out, swear (to), vow, testify, certify, vouchsafe, declare, assert, asseverate, aver, affirm, confirm, verify, substantiate, vouch for, Law depose, depose and say, depone: I attest to the fact that they left the restaurant together. The merits of chçteau-bottled Bordeaux are attested by most epicures.
AUTHOR|4|n. creator, originator, inventor, father, founder, framer, initiator, maker, prime mover, architect, designer; writer, novelist, litt÷rateur: Adolfo was the author of the plot to kill the governor.
AVERSE|9|adj. disinclined, unwilling, reluctant, resistant, loath, opposed, anti, antipathetic, ill-disposed, indisposed: He does not appear to be averse to your suggestion: in fact, he seems quite keen on it.
AWAKEN|13|v. See awake, 1, 2, above.
BABBLE|6|v. 1 prattle, twaddle, jabber, gibber, chatter, blab, blabber, gurgle, burble, gabble, Colloq blab, blabber, gab, yack, natter, witter, Brit rabbit: The silly fellow kept babbling away, but no one was listening. Madelaine is still too young to talk and just babbles to herself. 2 divulge, tell, disclose, repeat, reveal, tattle, gossip, blurt (out), Colloq blab: Don't tell Nigel about the affair - he'll babble it all over town. --n. 3 gibberish, nonsense, twaddle, prattle, chatter(ing), gibber, jabber, jibber-jabber, drivel, rubbish, bavardage; murmur, hubbub: Ella's conversation about the financial market is just so much babble.
BACKER|6|n. 1 supporter, advocate, promoter, sponsor, patron: She has always been an enthusiastic backer of adult education. 2 investor, benefactor or benefactress, supporter, underwriter, Colloq angel: The play's backers have made huge profits. 3 bettor, Brit punter: His backers are offering odds of 10 to 1.
BANISH|6|v. 1 exile, expatriate, deport, extradite, transport, eject, oust, expel, rusticate, drive out or away, dismiss, excommunicate, outlaw, ostracize: After ten years in prison, the thief was released and banished from the kingdom. 2 drive or drive out or away, expel, cast out, dismiss, reject: He tried to banish suspicion from his mind.
BANNER|6|n. 1 standard, flag, pennant, ensign, burgee, gonfalon, pennon, streamer, banderole; symbol: The flag of the United States is called the star-spangled banner. He is seeking election under the banner of the Tories. --adj. 2 leading, foremost, momentous, memorable, notable, important, noteworthy: The firm had a banner year, with profits up 25 per cent.
BARELY|11|adv. scarcely, only, just, not quite, hardly, only just, no more than: I barely had my coat off when she said she'd forgotten to shop for dinner.
BARREN|6|adj. 1 sterile, childless, infertile: We won't have any calf from this barren cow. 2 unproductive, sterile, bare, infertile; fruitless, dry, unfruitful, unprofitable, poor: The land was exceedingly stony and barren. The fifteenth century was the most barren period in the history of English literature.
BATTER|6|v. 1 beat, hit, strike, clout, belabour, pound, pummel or pommel, pelt, bash, smite, thrash, Colloq wallop, clobber: He was battered till he was black and blue. 2 bombard, attack, assault: Battering by the cannons finally breached the wall of the fort. 3 maltreat, mistreat, ill-treat, abuse; maul, bruise, harm, mangle, disfigure: The police report an increase in complaints about battered wives and children.
BATTLE|6|n. 1 fight, conflict, combat, action, encounter, clash, engagement, struggle, Donnybrook, fray, Law affray; brawl, fracas, mél÷e or melee; contest; duel, hand-to-hand encounter: You won the battle, but you lost the war. And now, the battle between the world champion and the challenger! 2 argument, dispute, altercation, quarrel, war; contest, competition; struggle, fight, crusade, campaign: The battle spilt out of the restaurant and into the street. We are not yet winning the battle against AIDS. --v. 3 Usually, battle against. fight, contend or struggle or fight with or strive against, combat: We must battle against ignorance at every opportunity.
BAUBLE|5|n. gewgaw, trinket, ornament, trifle, toy, bagatelle, knick-knack, plaything, kickshaw: Wear your diamonds to the ball, my dear, not those cheap baubles.
BEACON|10|n. signal, sign, fire, light, bonfire, flare, signal fire, Very light, rocket; lighthouse, pharos: Beacons blazed at the tops of the hills to spread the news of the victory. The drunkard's nose shone like a beacon.
BEAUTY|11|n. 1 loveliness, attractiveness, handsomeness, pulchritude: The beauty of the actress took my breath away. 2 belle, Colloq looker, knockout, dream, dreamboat, stunner: She was one of the great beauties of her day. 3 attraction, strength, advantage, asset: The beauty of the plan lies in its simplicity.
BECKON|6|v. signal, gesture, motion; summon, bid, call: The manager beckoned to me and I went over to see what he wanted.
BECOME|12|v. 1 turn or change or transform into: The princess kissed the prince, who immediately became a frog. 2 grow or develop or evolve into; mature or ripen into: It's hard to believe that this dull caterpillar will eventually become a splendid butterfly. 3 enhance, suit, fit, befit, be proper or appropriate for, behove or US behoove: Moonlight becomes you, It goes with your hair. 4 grace, adorn: Walter was a man who became the dignity of his function as a commissionaire. 5 become of. come of, happen to: What will become of you if you don't go to school?
BEDLAM|11|n. pandemonium, uproar, hubbub, commotion, confusion, tumult, turmoil, furore or US furor, chaos; madhouse: The chancellor's announcement created instant bedlam in the Commons.
BEFORE|11|adv. 1 previously, earlier, already, beforehand; formerly, in the past; once: I have told you before, don't count your chickens. 2 ahead, in advance, in front, in the forefront, first, in the vanguard, Colloq up front: He let his wife walk before, as he knew the road was mined. 3 ahead, in the future, to come: Before lie the prospects of surrendering or dying. --prep. 4 ahead of, in advance of, in front of, forward of: The king indicated that the page should go before him. 5 in front of; in the presence of: The entire valley was spread out before me. 6 preceding, previous or anterior to, prior to; on the eve of: Before my departure I have to kiss Annie goodbye. 7 in preference to, rather than, sooner than, more willingly than: They said they would die before yielding. --conj. 8 previous to or preceding the time when: This was a nice place before the day-trippers arrived.
BEGGAR|6|n. 1 mendicant, supplicant, suppliant, alms-man, sponger, tramp, vagrant, pauper, Colloq cadger, scrounger, US panhandler: We were approached by beggars on every street corner. 2 fellow, man, person, Colloq chap, guy, bloke: I feel sorry for the poor beggar who lost his wallet at the station. --v. 3 impoverish; want, challenge, defy, baffle: The misery of those people beggars description.
BEHALF|14|n. on or US in behalf of or on or US in one's behalf. for, as a representative of, in place of, instead of, in the name of, on the part of; in the interest of, for the benefit or advantage of: The lawyer is acting on behalf of the heirs.
BEHAVE|14|v. act, react, function, operate, perform, work, conduct or deport or comport or bear (oneself); act obediently, act properly, be good: The boy behaved with great insolence. I wish the children would behave themselves.
BEHEAD|12|v. decapitate, guillotine, Archaic decollate: Criminals and enemies of the state were formerly beheaded.
BEHOLD|12|v. see, look at, regard, set or lay eyes on, descry, notice, note, espy, perceive, discern, remark, view: As we emerged from the gorge, we beheld the mountain looming above us.
BEHOVE|14|v. US behoove; be required of, be incumbent on, be proper of, be fitting of or for, befit; be advisable for, be worthwhile for, be expeditious for or of, be advantageous to or for, be useful to or for, be beneficial to or for: It behoves you to be respectful to the chairman of the board.
BELIEF|11|n. 1 trust, dependence, reliance, confidence, faith, security, assurance: He retains his belief in the divine right of kings. 2 acceptance, credence; assent: His statements are unworthy of belief. 3 tenet, view, idea, sentiment, conviction, doctrine, dogma, principle(s), axiom, maxim, creed, opinion, persuasion: The belief that there is no God is as definite a creed as the belief in one God or in many gods. 4 intuition, judgement: It is her belief that nuclear energy will eventually prove economical.
BELLOW|9|v. 1 roar; yell, shout, blare, trumpet, howl, Colloq holler: Father was bellowing that he couldn't find his pipe. The public-address system bellowed out my name. --n. 2 roar; yell, shout, Colloq holler: The bull gave a bellow and charged.
BELONG|9|v. 1 be a member (of), be affiliated or associated or connected (with), be attached or bound (to), be a part (of): Does he belong to the Green party? He didn't want to belong while his wife was a member. 2 have a (proper) place (in), be proper (to): Do you ever get the feeling that you don't belong here? 3 belong to. be owned by, be the property or possession of: That coat belongs to me.
BEMOAN|10|v. lament, mourn or grieve or weep or moan for: She bitterly bemoaned the loss of her sole companion, her canary.
BEMUSE|10|v. 1 confuse, muddle, mix up, addle, befuddle, perplex, bewilder, puzzle, Colloq US and Canadian discombobulate: The actors were thoroughly bemused by the sudden appearance of a horse on stage. 2 stupefy, benumb, numb, paralyse: I found him, completely bemused, with the empty bottle beside him.
BENDER|9|Colloq n. drunk, spree, bout, revel, carousal, carouse, bacchanal; Slang binge, jag, US toot: He goes off on a bender whenever his wife leaves him.
BENIGN|9|adj. 1 kindly, gracious, good, kind, kind-hearted, benevolent, benignant, warm, warm-hearted, cordial, genial, congenial, tender, tender-hearted, compassionate, sympathetic, soft-hearted: It was Grandad's benign goodwill that kept us together in those hard times. 2 bland, gentle, mild, warm: A benign smile lit the headmaster's face as he announced the awards for scholastic achievement. 3 kind, favourable, fortunate; salutary, salubrious, mild, congenial, propitious: She recovered rapidly in that most benign climate. 4 non-fatal, non-malignant, non-virulent, curable, harmless: Fortunately, the biopsy showed that the tumour was benign.
BERATE|8|v. scold, chide, rate, upbraid, revile, abuse, rail at, excoriate, castigate, objurgate; harangue: In the square an ancient virago was berating a butcher.
BESIDE|9|prep. 1 alongside, near, next to, with, close to, hard by, nearby, by: A handsome young man walked up and sat down beside her. 2 away from, wide of, apart from, unconnected with, off: The fact that I owe you money is entirely beside the point. 3 beside oneself. out of one's mind or wits, at the end of one's tether, overwrought, agitated, upset, crazy, mad: She was beside herself with grief when she heard the news.
BETRAY|11|v. 1 be or prove false or disloyal to, sell out, break faith with, let down, fail, inform on, Colloq sell down the river, Slang Brit shop: He betrayed her to the enemy. 2 reveal, disclose, divulge, impart, tell; expose, lay bare: She betrayed their hide-out to the police. He betrayed an unsuspected streak of cowardice. 3 lead astray, mislead, misguide, deceive, dupe, fool, hoodwink: He has been betrayed by his own arrogance.
BETTER|6|adj. 1 superior: You're a better man than I am, Gunga Din. Can you suggest a better investment than the Channel Tunnel? I know of no better invention than the wheel. 2 more; greater, larger, bigger: I waited for her the better part of two hours. 3 wiser, safer, well-advised, more intelligent: It would be better to wait till tomorrow to tell her. 4 healthier, haler, heartier, less ill or US sick, improved; cured, recovered: You will feel better after you have eaten something. --adv. 5 preferably, best; more wisely, more advisedly, more safely: We had better go before the trouble starts. 6 better off. a improved, happier, well-advised: You'd be better off attending a technical college. b wealthier, richer: She is better off than any of us. 7 think better of. reconsider, think twice, change one's mind: He was going to fight but thought better of it. --n. 8 advantage, mastery, superiority, control: Don't let the obstacle course get the better of you. 9 betters. superiors: That young imp should learn how to address his elders and betters! --v. 10 improve, ameliorate, advance, raise, elevate: It was impossible in those days for labourers to better their condition. 11 surpass, excel, outdo, outstrip, beat, improve: She bettered her record in the 100-metre hurdles by two-tenths of a second.
BEWAIL|11|v. lament, mourn, bemoan, moan or mourn over, shed tears or whimper over, weep or cry or keen over, beat one's breast over: Instead of bewailing his condition, why doesn't he do something about it?
BEWARE|11|v. take heed, be careful, be wary, be cautious, be on one's guard, exercise caution, mind, watch out, look out, take care: There are shoals nearby, so beware. Beware the ides of March!
BIASED|9|adj. biased, prejudiced, partial; warped, distorted, jaundiced: I don't want to listen to your biased opinions about women's rights.
BICKER|6|v. dispute, quarrel, wrangle, argue, squabble, tiff, Colloq spat: The couple next door are always bickering about trifling matters.
BIGWIG|13|n. 1 boss, kingpin, king, queen, nabob, VIP, Colloq big-shot, big gun, big cheese, big wheel, hotshot, chief, brass hat, US (chief) honcho, Mr Big: The bigwig sits here, at the head of the table. 2 bigwigs. brass, brass hats: Don't let the bigwigs find out what we've done.
BITING|5|adj. severe, harsh, cutting, piercing, penetrating, keen, sharp, bitter; cold, wintry, freezing: The biting wind went right through his thin coat.
BITTER|6|adj. 1 harsh, acerbic, acrid, sharp, caustic, mordant: I added some cream to the sauce to try and make it taste less bitter. 2 unappetizing, distasteful, unsavoury, unpleasant, hard (to swallow or take), irritating, obnoxious, disagreeable, nasty, painful, unwelcome, unpalatable: The demand for additional tax payments was a bitter pill. 3 miserable, grievous, dispiriting, distressing, cruel, distressful: Dismissal after all those years in the firm was a bitter experience. 4 resentful, embittered, rancorous; hateful: Andrew felt bitter at not being selected as chairman. 5 stinging, cutting, biting, harsh, reproachful, vicious, acrimonious, virulent; cruel, unkind, unpleasant, nasty: His bitter denunciation of other candidates lost him the campaign. 6 sharp, keen, cutting, severe, biting, cold, wintry, freezing: A bitter gale lashed at the rigging.
BLEACH|1|v. 1 whiten, lighten, fade, blanch, blench, Technical etiolate: My jeans are all bleached by the sun. --n. 2 whitener, chlorine: Add a little bleach to the laundry.
BLIGHT|5|n. 1 affliction, disease, plague, infestation, pestilence, scourge: The crops were visited with a blight that lasted seven years. 2 misfortune, curse, trouble, woe, calamity: Genius may suffer an untimely blight. --v. 3 afflict, infest, plague, scourge; wither, mar, taint, blast: Central Africa has been blighted by famine after famine.
BLITHE|6|adj. 1 blissful, happy, cheerful, joyous, merry, light-hearted, well-pleased, delighted, gay, joyful, elated, jubilant: His spirit was blithe and his heart unquenchable. 2 happy-go-lucky, insouciant, heedless, carefree, unconcerned, blas÷, casual, detached, indifferent, uncaring, careless: She goes through life with a blithe disregard for the feelings of others.
BORDER|9|n. 1 edge, margin, hem, binding, trimming, trim, edging, periphery, purfle, purfling: The border of the tablecloth is beautifully embroidered with flowers. 2 Usually, borders. limit(s), bound(s), confines: Sometimes Tony exceeds the borders of good taste. 3 boundary, frontier: You won't be able to cross the border without a passport. 4 frame, frieze, moulding; dado, wainscot or wainscoting or wainscotting: The border of the fresco is in Greek fretwork design. 5 borderline, edge, verge, brink: She is just on the border of becoming a born-again Christian. 6 bed, flowerbed, herbaceous border: Hollyhocks are growing in the border. --v. 7 edge, trim, bind, fringe, purfle: The hem of the skirt is bordered with lace. 8 resemble (closely), approach (closely), verge upon or on: Isabel's attempts at playing the tuba border on the ludicrous. 9 lie alongside, adjoin, abut (on or upon), verge upon or on, touch, be adjacent to: The territory of the Gauls bordered the western lands of the Germans.
BORING|5|adj. dull, monotonous, tedious, humdrum, tiresome, dreary, flat, dead, uninteresting, unexciting, ennuyant, stale, tired, dry, dry-as-dust, arid; tiring, wearying, wearisome, exhausting, soporific; repetitious, wordy, prolix, unending, long-drawn-out: Felicity's boring old stories put me to sleep.
BORROW|9|v. take, appropriate, draw, adopt, refer to, obtain, Colloq sponge, cadge, touch (someone) for, US bum; Slang mooch: Has Fred borrowed my lawnmower again?
BOSOMY|13|adj. big-busted, busty, well-endowed: This tabloid always has a bosomy model on page 3.
BOTHER|6|v. 1 annoy, pester, worry, irritate, trouble, hector, harass, hound, dog, nag, plague, needle, Colloq hassle; Slang US nudge: I wish they'd stop bothering me about paying the telephone bill. 2 trouble (about), fuss (at), make a fuss (about), concern oneself (with), burden: Too few people are interested in bothering about the welfare of others. 3 confuse, bewilder, perplex, perturb, upset, disconcert, discomfit: She was increasingly bothered by her inability to understand the local language. --n. 4 trouble, inconvenience: Those pets must be a lot of bother. 5 worry, annoyance, vexation, nuisance, irritation, trouble, effort, disturbance, upset, Slang hassle: Painting the lattice will be more bother than it's worth. 6 dither, flutter, Colloq tizzy, pet, stew, lather, sweat: She seems to have worked herself into quite a bother about something quite insignificant. 7 pest, irritant, nag, nuisance, Colloq pain, pain in the neck or Brit taboo arse or US taboo ass; Slang US nudge: Mother is such a bother, always asking if I wear my galoshes when it rains. 8 disturbance, to-do, ado, commotion, fuss, trouble, disorder, stir, hubbub: We ran into a bit of bother at the pub last night.
BOTTLE|6|n. 1 flask, container; fiasco, decanter: The milkman left two bottles of milk. 2 courage, nerve, manliness, manfulness, grit, backbone, gumption, mettle, pluck, Dutch courage, Slang guts; Colloq spunk, starch, US moxie: He was going to tell her off but lost his bottle at the last minute. 3 the bottle. alcohol, alcoholic drink, spirit(s), liquor, booze, sauce: He's back on the bottle after only two weeks of being on the wagon. --v. 4 bottle up. a contain, restrain, hold back, control, suppress, repress, hold or keep in check, stifle: All the emotions, bottled up for so long, burst upon him at once, and he wept pitiably. b trap, cut off, hem in, box in: With the help of the posse, we can bottle up the gang in the canyon.
BOTTOM|8|n. 1 seat, buttocks, rear, behind, rear end, derriëre, rump, posterior, hindquarters, breech, fundament, gluteus maximus, Colloq backside, butt, prat, Brit bum , US can, duff, keister or keester, hinie; Taboo Brit arse, US ass; Slang US tokus or tochis or tuchis, tushie or tushy or tush: He just sits there on his bottom, never doing a bit of work. 2 base, foot, foundation, groundwork, substructure, footing, underpinning, fundament: A ditch was dug along the bottom of the wall. 3 basis, foundation, source, origin, cause, heart, nub: We have to get to the bottom of the problem. 4 depths, Davy Jones's locker; bed: The ship sank to the bottom of the sea. 5 at bottom. basically, fundamentally, in the final or last analysis, really, in reality, truly, in truth, essentially: Despite her behaviour at the party, at bottom she is very reserved. 6 Bottoms up! Prosit!, To your (very good) health!, Cheers!, Here's to -!, Skol!: Here's to the whole team - Bottoms up!
BOUNCE|10|n. 1 bound, leap, hop, recoil, ricochet, rebound: The ball took a bad bounce and the infielder missed it. 2 vitality, energy, verve, zest, vivacity, liveliness, animation, dynamism, life, Colloq pep, zip, go, get-up-and-go: Betty has so much bounce, she is a bit tiring to have around. --v. 3 bound, rebound, hop; recoil, ricochet: The ball bounced over the wall and into the river.
BOUNTY|11|n. 1 generosity, liberality, munificence, charitableness, philanthropy, charity, unselfishness, beneficence, goodness: The poor used to be dependent on the bounty of the local gentry. 2 gift, present, largesse, grant, subsidy, endowment, subvention: People should be given work and not live off the bounty of the state. 3 reward, award, premium, bonus, gratuity: In America they paid a bounty of ø50 for every dead wolf.
BOYISH|9|adj. 1 young, youthful, juvenile, adolescent: She liked his boyish good looks. 2 childish, puerile, juvenile, immature: Don't be too hard on them - it was just a boyish prank.
BRANCH|6|n. 1 offshoot, arm; limb, bough, stem, shoot, twig, sprig: The branches of this tree need trimming. 2 department, section, subsection, division, subdivision, office, part, ramification; affiliate, subsidiary; spin-off: What branch of medicine are you going to specialize in? The company maintains branches in New York and Melbourne. --v. 3 ramify, divide, subdivide, diverge; diversify: This road branches off in three directions. The company will branch out into electronics this year.
BRASSY|9|adj. 1 impudent, forward, insolent, saucy, brash, rude, brazen, shameless; coarse, flashy, florid, flamboyant; Colloq cheeky, fresh: Our landlady was a big brassy blonde. 2 harsh, strident, tinny, grating, dissonant, shrill, loud: She has just the right kind of brassy voice for belting out songs like, 'There's No Business Like Show Business'.
BRAZEN|17|adj. brassy, shameless, barefaced, brash, outspoken, forward, immodest, unashamed, audacious, candid, open, unabashed, brazen-faced; rude, impudent, impertinent, insolent, saucy, Colloq cheeky, fresh, US sassy: That's the last time I'll let that brazen hussy near my husband!
BREACH|6|n. 1 break, violation, infraction, disobedience, non-observance, infringement, contravention: Their failure to comply with paragraph 3 is a clear breach of our contract. 2 break, rift, gulf, split, break-up, separation, rupture, severance, schism, split, alienation, estrangement: There seems to be no way to heal the breach between them. 3 gap, fissure, crack, split, hole, opening; chasm: Their cannon opened a breach in the castle wall. --v. 4 rupture; break through, invade: The sea has breached the dyke. Someone breached the security measures set up for the missile design.
BREAST|8|n. 1 chest, bosom, bust; teat, Technical mamma, Slang boob, knocker, tit, titty: He clasped the child to his breast. On some beaches in Europe, women bare their breasts when sunbathing. 2 soul, core, heart, heart of hearts: I feel in my breast it is the right thing to do.
BREEZE|15|n. 1 breath, puff, zephyr, wind, draught, gust, Nautical cat's-paw: A breeze sprang up from the north, and the little boat moved forward. 2 easy or simple job or task, nothing, Colloq snap, Slang cinch, US lead-pipe cinch: It ought to be a breeze to find someone at that salary.
BREEZY|18|adj. 1 airy, fresh, windy, draughty, brisk, gusty: The afternoon was breezy and warm, ideal for walking. 2 casual, carefree, light-hearted, cheerful, cheery, airy, lively, spirited, blithesome, buoyant: The chairman's breezy opening of the annual meeting made everyone feel comfortable.
BRIDAL|9|adj. nuptial, wedding; conjugal, connubial, marriage: The bridal gown was white, with lace appliqu÷s.
BRIDGE|10|n. 1 span: We could build a bridge over the river here. 2 link, connexion or connection, tie, bond: She regarded teaching as a bridge between her studies and a post in school administration. --v. 3 span, cross (over), go or pass over, traverse: The viaduct bridges the swamp. 4 connect, link, unite, join, tie: The gap between rich and poor is not easily bridged.
BRIDLE|9|n. 1 restraint, curb, check, control: Man has need of a bridle on his passions. --v. 2 curb, check, restrain, hold in, control: You must learn to bridle your temper. 3 bristle, draw oneself up, be or become indignant, take offence or umbrage or affront (at), be affronted or offended (by): She bridled at the suggestion that she was responsible for Keith's departure.
BRIGHT|5|adj. 1 light, shining, gleaming, radiant, brilliant, resplendent, glittering, flashing, Formal refulgent, effulgent, fulgent, fulgid, fulgorous; alight, aglow, beaming, dazzling, glowing, luminous, lambent, incandescent, ablaze with: We arrived on a bright, sunny day. The water was bright with phosphorescence. 2 clear, cloudless, fair, unclouded: It certainly is a bright night - you can see every star. 3 shiny, polished, lustrous, glossy, sparkling: I want that brass so bright I can see my face in it. 4 hopeful, optimistic, favourable, propitious, auspicious, promising, rosy: Glenys's job prospects are not very bright. 5 brilliant, vivid, intense, fluorescent, US trade mark Day-Glo: But you said you wanted the room bright orange, Madam. 6 intelligent, clever, quick-witted, witty, brilliant, keen-minded, sharp-witted, gifted, astute, ingenious, alert, smart; precocious; Colloq brainy, on the ball: No one can deny that Alison is a bright young woman. 7 illustrious, glorious, splendid, magnificent, distinguished, outstanding: Today has been one of the brightest days in the history of Britain. 8 cheerful, gay, happy, exuberant, lively, animated, vivacious, spirited: It is a pleasure to see so many bright faces in the audience.
BROACH|6|v. introduce, raise, open (up), suggest, mention, hint at, touch on or upon, bring up or in, talk about, advance: I didn't dare broach the subject of money.
BROKEN|12|adj. 1 fragmented, shattered, shivered, splintered, ruptured, cracked, split, smashed, pulverized, disintegrated, destroyed, demolished: A broken Ming vase cannot be worth much. 2 fractured: With a broken leg, she certainly won't be competing in the slalom. 3 enfeebled, weakened, crushed, defeated, beaten, ruined; dispirited, dejected, discouraged, demoralized, defeated, subdued, debilitated, Colloq licked: Rosa's running away with a sailor left Hugh a broken man. 4 tamed, trained, disciplined, obedient, docile, domesticated, subdued; conditioned: What use is a horse that isn't broken? 5 violated, transgressed, disobeyed, contravened, defied, flouted,disregarded, ignored, infringed: The rules of this club are broken too often: we'll have to tighten things up. 6 interrupted, disturbed, discontinuous, disjointed, disconnected, fragmented, fragmentary, intermittent, erratic, sporadic: I couldn't stop worrying about the operation and had a terrible night of broken sleep. 7 Also, broken-down. out of order or commission, not working or functioning, in disrepair, Slang on the blink, out of kilter, kaput, US on the fritz, out of whack: My watch is broken. Why waste money repairing that broken-down car of yours?
BROKER|12|n. stockbroker; agent, dealer, middleman, intermediary, go-between, Brit stockjobber: I have phoned my broker to tell him to sell all my shares.
BROOCH|4|n. clasp, pin; fastening: She was wearing the cameo brooch I had given to her mother.
BRUISE|8|n. 1 injury, hurt, contusion, bump, welt, scrape, abrasion, scratch, wound, black-and-blue mark, blotch, blemish, mark, spot, discoloration, damage, Technical ecchymosis: I got this bruise from walking into the corner of the table. The price is lower if the fruit has a few bruises. --v. 2 injure, contuse, hurt, scrape, harm; wound, damage: I bruised my knee when I fell down. Being arrested certainly bruised his self-esteem.
BRUTAL|8|adj. 1 inhuman, savage, cruel, pitiless, harsh, severe, barbaric, barbarous, beastly, bestial, sadistic, murderous; inhumane, heartless, hard-hearted, unkind, fierce, stony-hearted, insensitive, unfeeling, cold-blooded, unsympathetic, remorseless, ruthless, ferocious, atrocious, Draconian or Draconic, Literary fell: Few survived the brutal treatment in the concentration camps. 2 rude, ill-mannered, coarse, unrefined, boorish, ill-bred, rustic, crass, uncouth, uncultured, uncultivated, rough, crude: His brutal behaviour made him unfit to represent the Crown.
BUBBLE|6|n. 1 blister, air pocket, globule, droplet: This painted surface is full of air bubbles. 2 bubbles. froth, foam, suds, lather, spume; effervescence, carbonation, fizz: The cider is full of bubbles. --v. 3 foam, froth, boil, seethe, fizz: A pot of soup was bubbling on the stove.
BUBBLY|9|adj. 1 effervescent, foamy, frothy, fizzy, sparkling: I could see that the surface was all bubbly. 2 effervescent, merry, ebullient, bouncy, animated, vivacious, cheerful, cheery, lively, excited: Janet is known for her bubbly personality. --n. 3 champagne, sparkling wine, sparkling burgundy, Asti spumante, Colloq Brit champers: Let's open a bottle of bubbly and celebrate.
BUCKET|6|n. pail, scuttle: Keep this bucket of coal near the hearth.
BUCKLE|6|n. 1 clasp, fastener, clip, fastening, hook, catch: The buckle broke on my belt and my trousers fell down. --v. 2 collapse, cave in, crumple, bend, warp, distort, twist, bulge: The support gave way and the entire wall buckled.
BUGGER|6|n. 1 buggerer, sodomite. 2 chap, fellow, man; boy, lad, child, tot; Slang chiefly Brit geezer , US jerk; Colloq guy , Brit bloke, fool, idiot: He's a cute little bugger, isn't he? Who's that silly-looking bugger with Christina? --v. 3 Also, bugger up. ruin, destroy, botch, bungle, wreck; make a mess of, Colloq mess or screw up, Brit bollocks or ballocks up, balls up, make a balls-up of, cock up, US ball up, bollix up; Taboo fuck up: He's buggered the recording, so we'll have to start again at the beginning. Why does she bugger up everything I try to do? 4 bugger about or around. a fool about, waste time, dawdle, Colloq US lallygag or lollygag; Taboo fuck about or around: He buggers about the house all the time instead of looking for a job. Don't bugger about with my hi-fi. b cause complications for, create difficulties for: She pretends to be helping me, but she's just buggering me about. 5 bugger off. go away, depart, leave, clear off or out, Colloq make tracks, skedaddle, beat it, Slang piss off; Taboo fuck off: Oh, bugger off and leave me alone!
BUNDLE|9|n. 1 bunch, collection, package, parcel, packet, pack; bale, sheaf; Archaic fardel: I have to leave this bundle at the laundry today. Bring this bundle of hay for the horse. --v. 2 gather (together), tie up (together), collect, pack, package: He bundled up all his belongings. 3 bundle off or out. dispatch or despatch, pack off, hustle or hurry off or away, send away or off; decamp, scurry off or away, Colloq Brit do a moonlight flit: We bundled Aunt Mary off home as soon as the storm subsided. That couple have bundled out of room 429.
BUNGLE|9|v. spoil, botch, mismanage, stumble, bumble, Golf foozle, Colloq foul or screw or louse up, blow, mess or muck up, make a mess or hash or muddle of, muff, Slang Brit bugger, US snafu, Taboo fuck up: Smith has bungled the job again; we'll have to replace him.
BURDEN|9|n. 1 load, weight, gravamen; strain, pressure, trouble, onus, millstone, cross, albatross: The old man put down his burden. The burden of the evidence is against them. His feeling of guilt over her death in the crash was a terrible burden to bear. --v. 2 load, weigh down, saddle with, encumber; tax, oppress: The mules were heavily burdened with a month's supply of food. Don't burden me with your problems.
BUREAU|8|n. 1 Brit (writing-)desk, US chest of drawers, chest, dresser, chifferobe, chiffonier: Simon has a beautiful antique bureau in his office. One of my cuff-links rolled under the bureau. 2 office, agency, department, division, section, subdivision, subsection, desk: I sent the form to the bureau a month ago, but I still don't have my visa.
BURIAL|8|n. interment, funeral, entombment, obsequies, sepulture: His six ex-wives attended the burial.
BURROW|9|n. 1 excavation, hole, warren, tunnel: The rabbit retreated to its burrow under the hedge. --v. 2 dig, delve, tunnel, bore; excavate: The larvae burrow into the wood where the birds can hear them moving about.
BYGONE|12|adj. past, former, olden; of old, of yore: In bygone times, the fashion was for high-button shoes.
BYPASS|11|v. 1 avoid, evade, circumvent, sidestep, skirt, go or get round, detour; ignore, Slang give the go-by: I shall bypass many problems if I take that route. --n. 2 detour, alternative (way, route, etc.), alternate way or route: Take the bypass and avoid the town traffic.
BYWORD|15|n. proverb, proverbial saying, parable, maxim, adage, motto, slogan, apophthegm or apothegm, aphorism, catchword, catch-phrase: My byword has always been, Honesty is the best policy.
CACHET|6|n. 1 stamp, feature, distinguishing mark, identification: The cachet of good taste is simplicity of design. 2 distinction, prominence, importance, prestige, dignity: Her new job doesn't pay much, but it has a certain cachet.
CAJOLE|15|v. wheedle, coax, beguile, jolly (along), cosy along, seduce, inveigle, persuade, Colloq soft-soap, butter (up), stroke, sweet-talk: Robert's wife always has to cajole him to go and visit her mother.
CALLOW|9|adj. inexperienced, immature, juvenile, naìve, green, guileless, unsophisticated, innocent, raw, unfledged, untried, Colloq (still) wet behind the ears: It was a mistake to let a callow youth take out the boat alone.
CANCEL|10|v. 1 void, annul, invalidate, nullify, quash; revoke, rescind, redeem, repeal, abolish, retract, withdraw, recall, repudiate, abrogate, countermand, deny: The bonds have been cancelled and are worthless. She cancelled the incorrect cheque. 2 delete, obliterate, cross or strike or blot out, dele, rub out, erase, expunge, efface, eradicate, quash, deracinate; eliminate, do away with: I was forced to cancel the chapter of my book that dealt with M.I.5 activities. 3 Sometimes, cancel out. neutralize, nullify, counterbalance, countervail, compensate (for), make up for, offset, counteract: His later kindnesses cancel his previous injustices.
CANDID|10|adj. 1 frank, open, plain, sincere, ingenuous, straight, straightforward, truthful, forthright, direct, unequivocal, plain-spoken, plain-speaking, outspoken, honest, artless, blunt, guileless, open-hearted, above-board, undeceitful, undeceiving, undeliberative, uncalculating, uncalculated, unpremeditated, uncontrived , Colloq upfront: Henry offered a very candid account of his feelings. Let us be candid and speak our minds. 2 just, impartial, objective, fair, equitable, unbiased, unprejudiced, even-handed; unbigoted: The speaker expressed a candid view of all of the proposals. 3 unposed, informal, impromptu: Here is a candid photo of the two of us in Rome.
CANYON|11|n. gorge, ravine, gully or gulley, pass, defile, Brit dialect gill or ghyll, US and Canadian coul÷e, gulch; US gap, arroyo: The canyon created by the river is more than a thousand feet deep.
CAREEN|6|v. heel over, keel over; US loosely career, sway, tip, pitch, veer, swerve, lurch: We hauled out the boat, careened her, and proceeded to caulk her seams.
CAREER|6|n. 1 employment, occupation, calling, vocation, pursuit, (life's) work, job, business, livelihood; profession, trade, craft, m÷tier: She has made a career out of helping others. He is undecided whether to pursue a career in accountancy. --v. 2 speed, race, rush, dash, fly, tear, hurtle, bolt, shoot, Colloq zoom: A bicycle came careering around the corner and knocked him down.
CARESS|6|n. 1 pat, stroke, fondling, blandishment; cuddle, embrace, hug; nuzzle, kiss: He submitted willingly to her caresses. --v. 2 touch, pat, pet, fondle, stroke; cuddle, embrace, hug; nuzzle, kiss: The kitten approached warily and Isabella caressed it.
CARNAL|8|adj. fleshly, sensual, animal, bodily, lustful, voluptuous, libidinous, lecherous, concupiscent, sexual, erotic, lascivious, licentious, lewd, prurient: She is intent on satisfying her carnal desires.
CASTLE|8|n. 1 fortress, stronghold, citadel: The king moved to Windsor Castle during the winter. 2 mansion, palace, manor-house, hall, chçteau: Mr Mooney lives alone in his castle and has nothing to do with his neighbours.
CASUAL|8|adj. 1 accidental, chance, random, fortuitous, unexpected, unforeseen, unpremeditated, unplanned, unforeseeable, unpredictable, serendipitous: It was only a casual remark, but it was taken very seriously. We interviewed casual passers-by. 2 uncertain, unsure, haphazard, occasional, random, irregular, unsystematic, sporadic, erratic: The budget includes provision for both certain and casual revenues. 3 indifferent, nonchalant, offhand, insouciant, apathetic, cool, unconcerned, uninterested, pococurante, dispassionate, blas÷, relaxed, lackadaisical: He may seem casual, but he is genuinely concerned about the patients. 4 informal; lounge: Dinner dress is not required: you may come in casual clothes. 5 offhand, happy-go-lucky, natural, easy, easygoing, devil-may-care, unconcerned, relaxed, d÷gag÷, unconstrained: Phil is quite casual about losing money at roulette.
CATTLE|6|n. livestock, stock, beef; cows, bulls, bullocks, steers, bovines, oxen: He spent 20 years as a cowboy, herding cattle in Texas.
CAVITY|14|n. pit, hole, hollow, opening, crater, gap; space: The limestone is marked with a pattern of cavities. Vowel sounds resonate in the oral cavity.
CAVORT|11|v. curvet, prance, caper, frisk, bound, gambol, romp, skip, leap, jump, dance: Stop cavorting about and settle down.
CELLAR|6|n. basement, vault: She led me down to the cellar to show me her wine collection.
CEMENT|10|n. 1 mortar, bond, glue, gum, paste, solder; adhesive: You'll need a special kind of cement to stick metal to glass. --v. 2 stick, glue, paste, solder, weld, braze, bond; join, bind, combine, unite; cohere, hold, cling, adhere: First cement the tiles to the wall. The ashes and cinders cement readily into a compact mass.
CENTRE|8|n. 1 middle, core, heart; nucleus, focal point, hub, pivot, nave; mid-point: He stood in the centre of the road. We journeyed to the centre of the earth. The tower is at the centre of the market square. The amount to be paid was at the centre of the controversy. Mark the centre of the line. --v. 2 focus, converge, meet, concentrate, cluster: The business of the meeting centred on the nomination of a chairperson. All my hopes were centred on getting the job as supervisor.
CHANCE|6|n. 1 fortune, luck, fate: We met, as chance would have it, at the supermarket. Life is but a game of chance for those who cannot control their destiny. 2 opportunity, time, turn; occasion: You have had your chance to return the money, now it is too late. 3 Also, chances. likelihood, probability, prospect, odds, certainty, predictability; conceivability, possibility: Chances are that he'll be late. The chance of winning the lottery is pretty remote. 4 Also, chances. risk, speculation, gamble: You are taking a chance going out there without a weapon. I'll take my chances. 5 by chance. a accidentally, unintentionally, inadvertently: By chance the witness saw him talking to the suspect. b perhaps, maybe, possibly, conceivably: Have you by chance a match? --adj. 6 casual, incidental, accidental, unintentional, inadvertent; unplanned, unpremeditated, unexpected, unforeseen; unlooked-for: The affair began with a chance meeting at a pub. --v. 7 happen; occur, come to pass, take place, come about; befall, betide: We chanced to see him jogging in the park. It chanced that a passer-by called the police. 8 risk, hazard; imperil, endanger, jeopardize, stake, bet, wager: Few would chance severe penalties or jail by lying on a tax return. Don't chance everything you've worked for!
CHANGE|5|n. 1 substitution, replacement, exchange, interchange, switch: You have five minutes for a change of costume. This sunny weather is certainly a change for the better. 2 variation, difference, switch, variety, novelty: We prefer to live where there is a change of the seasons, not in the tropics. 3 variation, alteration, change-over, mutation, shift, modulation, modification, transformation, metamorphosis, revolution: I can't believe the change that has come over Betty since the divorce. 4 coin(s), coppers, silver; (hard) cash: I need some change for the coffee machine. --v. 5 exchange, interchange, switch, trade; replace (with), substitute, Colloq swap or swop: I won't be a minute, I just want to change my shoes. I'd like to change this shirt for a larger size. 6 modify, alter, modulate; mutate, transform, metamorphose: Antoinette has changed since her marriage. I never thought anyone would be able to make her change her mind. 7 fluctuate, shift, vary; vacillate: The temperature often changes very rapidly here. 8 change to or into. turn into, become, transform, mutate, transmute, convert, metamorphose: The alchemists tried to change base metal into gold. Every winter changes into spring - sooner or later.
CHASTE|4|adj. 1 pure, virginal, virgin, celibate, abstinent, continent, virtuous, undefiled, stainless, unstained, unsullied, unblemished, decent, clean, good, wholesome, moral: Only a knight who was wholly chaste would find the Grail. 2 subdued, severe, restrained, unadorned, austere, unembellished, simple, pure, undecorated, clean: In some respects, modern architecture emulates the chaste style of the ancient Egyptians.
CHEEKY|9|adj. impudent, impertinent, insolent, audacious, disrespectful, rude, uncivil, forward, brazen, pert, saucy: That cheeky little brat told me to get lost!
CHILLY|5|adj. 1 cool, coldish, cold, frigid, nippy, frosty, icy, crisp, chill: The weather has been quite chilly for May. 2 chill, unenthusiastic, unresponsive, unreceptive, frosty, unwelcoming, crisp, cool, cold, unfriendly, hostile; distant, aloof: The suggestion that the charity fair be held in her garden met with a chilly response from Lady Griffiths.
CHISEL|4|v. 1 carve, cut, pare, groove, shape, engrave, grave: He was chiselling the figure of an eagle out of the board. 2 cheat, defraud, swindle, bilk, trick, fool, dupe, gull, Colloq bamboozle: The gamblers chiselled him out of a week's wages.
CHOICE|6|n. 1 selection, election, preference, choosing, pick, acceptance: I don't care for his choice of language. 2 option, realm of possibilities; alternative, voice, determination: She was given no choice in selecting her husband. 3 pick, ÷lite, flower, best, select, cream, crëme de la crëme: The king's guard is made up from the choice of the kingdom. --adj. 4 select, exquisite, special, superior, prime, high-quality, excellent, pre-eminent, best, prize, first-rate, exceptional, preferred, desirable, ideal, rare, Colloq Brit plummy: She has the choicest wines in her cellar. 5 selected, select, hand-picked, well-chosen, fit, appropriate, fitting: The eulogy was disposed of in a few choice words.
CHOOSE|2|v. select, elect, pick (out), determine, judge; decide, prefer, opt, settle upon or on: She had the right to choose the course that seemed the best to her. Given the options, I chose to stay.
CHOOSY|5|adj. selective, discriminating, discerning, fastidious, finicky or finical, particular, fussy, demanding, exacting, difficult, hard to please , Colloq picky: If you weren't so choosy, you wouldn't have to pay so much.
CHUBBY|5|adj. podgy or US pudgy; stumpy, stubby, chunky, tubby, plump, dumpy, thickset, heavy-set, heavy, ample, overweight: She was a bit chubby when a teenager but became a professional model when she was 21.
CHUMMY|5|adj. friendly, sociable, intimate, close, thick, Colloq pally, US palsy-walsy, buddy-buddy: You were very chummy with Peter once, weren't you?
CIRCLE|6|n. 1 disc or chiefly US disk, ring, hoop, loop, band, wheel, annulus, ringlet; cordon: Using a compass, he carefully drew a circle. We formed a circle around the speaker. 2 set, coterie, clique, class, division, group, crowd; society, fellowship, fraternity, company: John and I don't move in the same circles. --v. 3 encircle, circumambulate, go round or around, tour; circumnavigate: For exercise, I circle the lake in the park every morning. 4 encircle, surround, gird, enclose, circumscribe: Twenty small diamonds circle each star sapphire.
CLAMMY|9|adj. 1 moist, sticky, gummy, pasty, viscous, slimy: In the swamp the police found a clammy pistol that they believe to be the weapon. 2 moist, damp, humid, close, muggy, wet, misty, foggy: It was the kind of clammy summer's day when your shirt sticks to your back.
CLEAVE|11|v. split, divide, cut, cut or chop or hew in two or asunder, bisect, halve, separate, slit, rive: With a mighty blow the log was cleaved cleanly in two.
CLEVER|11|adj. 1 skilled, talented, skilful, adroit, dexterous, gifted, agile, quick-witted, intelligent, perceptive, discerning, sharp, sharp-witted, adept, able, Colloq brainy: She was very clever at mathematics. 2 shrewd, cunning, guileful, canny, artful, crafty, sly, wily, foxy: It was a clever move to sound out the chairman before the meeting. 3 intelligent, wise, sage, sagacious; ingenious, original, resourceful, Daedalian, inventive, creative, smart, imaginative: It was very clever of her to memorize the record-book for the competition. 4 deft, adroit, nimble-fingered, dexterous, handy, skilful: The old woman is clever with her hands.
CLIENT|8|n. customer, patron, shopper; patient: She opened a law practice and already has a number of clients.
CLIMAX|17|n. 1 culmination, height, acme, apex, summit, zenith, apogee, peak, high point, maximum, supreme moment: The war reached its climax at the battle of Arbela. 2 turning-point, crisis, crossroads: The climax of the play occurs in the third act. 3 orgasm: She told her psychiatrist that she had never reached a climax with her husband. --v. 4 culminate, peak, crest, come to a head: The week's events climaxed with the presentation of the gold medal.
CLINCH|6|v. 1 secure, settle, confirm, determine, conclude, dispose of, complete, wind up, finalize Colloq sew up: He clinched the argument by resigning. --n. 2 close quarters, hug, clasp, embrace; cuddle: The boxers went into a clinch to regain their breath.
CLIQUE|6|n. set, coterie, crowd, circle, group: There was the usual clique from the Sales Department standing round the bar.
CLOTHE|6|v. 1 dress, attire, garb, apparel, outfit, fit out or up, accoutre or US also accouter, Brit kit out or up, Colloq tog up or out: He earns barely enough to clothe and feed his family. 2 endow, invest, caparison, endue: They tried to clothe their transactions with the raiment of honesty.
CLUMSY|13|adj. awkward, ungainly, unwieldy, ungraceful, gawky, maladroit, unhandy, unskilful, inept, bungling, bumbling, cloddish, ox-like, bovine, uncoordinated, lubberly, oafish; gauche, Colloq butter-fingered, ham-fisted, ham-handed, cack-handed: He made a clumsy attempt to put the key in the lock. She gave a clumsy excuse for being in the bank after hours.
CLUTCH|6|v. 1 seize, snatch, grab, grasp, take or lay hold of; hold; US snag: She clutched feebly to the rope before losing her grip and plunging into the abyss below. He clutched the child to his bosom. --n. 2 clutches. a grasp at, hold; embrace: We watched as the gazelle deftly eluded the cheetah's clutches. b influence, control, power, domination, dominance, possession: He fell into the clutches of the Triads.
COARSE|8|adj. 1 rough, uneven, scratchy, prickly, bristly; crude, rough-hewn, unfinished, unrefined: He has a three-day coarse growth of beard. The surface on the furniture is still too coarse. 2 rude, boorish, loutish, crude, ill-mannered, unpolished, rough, uncouth, impolite, uncivil, unrefined: Nigel's behaviour is coarse, and he spits when he talks. 3 rude, indecent, improper, indelicate, obscene, lewd, vulgar, gross, smutty, dirty, filthy, foul, offensive, lascivious, ribald, bawdy; foul-mouthed: Don't use that kind of coarse language with me. 4 inferior, low-quality, second-rate, shoddy, tawdry, trashy; kitschy: That shop stocks only the coarsest merchandise.
CODDLE|6|v. pamper, baby, cosset, mollycoddle, indulge, humour, spoil, Brit cocker: Give him a cold bath and don't coddle him so much.
COFFIN|6|n. casket, pall, (pine) box; sarcophagus: The coffin was slowly lowered into the grave.
COHORT|11|n. 1 troop, squad, squadron, platoon, brigade, unit, cadre, wing, legion, detachment, contingent: Ten select Roman cohorts were sent against the Mitanni. 2 company, band, group, faction, set, body, corps: She was a member of a small cohort of suffragettes. 3 companion, confederate, accomplice, associate, fellow, comrade, friend, confrëre: Gerald then arrived with a few of his cohorts.
COLOUR|8|n. 1 hue, tint, tincture, shade, tone, cast, tinge, pigmentation; pigment, dye: The colours of the curtains don't match the wall. 2 colours. a flag, ensign, standard, pennant, banner, burgee: The sloop hoisted the British colours. b device, badge, emblem, insigne or pl insignia, symbol(s), identification; identity, appearance, face; loyalties: The investigators found he'd been operating under false colours. She has shown her true colours at last. --v. 3 tint, dye, stain, paint, crayon, tincture, tinge; pigment: These sections will stand out better if you colour them red. 4 influence, affect, distort, falsify, taint, warp, twist, slant, pervert, bias: Jealousy colours his opinion of his supervisor. 5 blush, redden, flush: After their affair, she visibly coloured whenever they met. 6 falsify, distort, misrepresent, disguise, mask, conceal: He feigns confusion when he wishes to colour his true feelings.
COMBAT|12|n. 1 fight, encounter, engagement, duel, battle, conflict, war, warfare; skirmish: The two men were locked in single combat. 2 struggle, contest, strife, controversy, dispute, quarrel, disagreement, altercation, vendetta, feud: There was endless combat between father and son. 3 opposition, difference, confrontation: The combat between good and evil can never end. 4 action, fighting, battle, war: He was in combat on three occasions. Have you seen any combat? --v. 5 fight, (do) battle, war, clash, contend, duel, joust, wrestle, come to blows, spar, grapple (with): The soldiers are combating hand to hand in the trenches. 6 fight, struggle or strive against, contest, oppose, defy, enter the lists against, withstand: There was broad support for measures to combat crime and pollution.
COMELY|13|adj. good-looking, pretty, bonny, lovely, fair, beautiful, handsome, attractive, appealing, wholesome, winsome, buxom: She is a comely woman who has had no shortage of suitors.
COMEON|10|n. lure, attraction, enticement, inducement, temptation, bait; loss-leader: The free glassware is a come-on to buy a tankful of petrol.
COMMIT|6|v. 1 entrust, consign, transfer, assign, delegate, hand over, deliver, give; allot, pledge, allocate: They committed the goods to traders with strong distribution facilities. 2 sentence, send (away), confine, shut up, intern, put away, imprison, incarcerate: The judge committed her to prison. You can be committed for such behaviour. 3 perpetrate, do, perform, carry out: They committed murder for money. 4 commit oneself. pledge, promise, covenant, agree, assure, swear, give one's word, vow, vouchsafe, engage, undertake, guarantee, bind oneself: He committed himself to buying the company after seeing the books.
COMMON|6|adj. 1 ordinary, everyday, commonplace, prosaic, usual, familiar, customary, prevalent, frequent, run-of-the-mill, general, normal, standard, conventional, regular, routine, stock, average, proverbial; plain, simple, garden-variety, common or garden, workaday, undistinguished, unexceptional: Intermarriage is a common occurrence among the members of the sect. We planted a common variety of carrot. 2 mutual, reciprocal, joint, shared: Our common heritage must be protected. 3 low-class, ordinary, plain, simple, plebeian, bourgeois, proletarian, run-of-the-mill, vulgar, unrefined: Kings avoid dealing with the common people. 4 inferior, low-grade, mean, cheap, base: He was smoking a cigar of the commonest type. 5 public, general, community, communal, collective, non-private, universal; well-known: The contents of the library are the common property of everyone. Their romance is common knowledge in the village. 6 trite, stale, hackneyed, worn out, banal, tired, overused, stereotyped, clich÷d, stereotypical: The term 'yuppie' has become too common to have much impact any longer.
COMPLY|15|v. agree, obey, conform, consent, acquiesce, concur, submit, yield, accede; accord: They require your signature and I hope you'll comply.
CONFER|11|v. 1 converse, consult, deliberate, talk (over), discuss, take counsel: I shall have to confer with my colleagues on that matter. 2 When transitive, confer on. give, grant, present, award; bestow (on): The prizes will be conferred after the dinner. He was bewildered by the honours conferred on him.
CORPSE|10|n. body, remains, cadaver, Slang stiff; (of an animal) carcass: The corpses were buried in a mass grave.
COUPLE|10|n. 1 pair, duo, twosome; brace, span, yoke, team: They certainly make a nice couple. 2 a couple of. a few, several, a handful (of), one or two, three or four: I'll be with you in a couple of minutes. --v. 3 join, link, yoke, combine, unite, match up, connect: The two carriages are easily coupled together.
COURSE|8|n. 1 path, way, orbit, route, run, track, ambit, line, circuit, passage: We continued on our course. The sun pursued its fiery course across the heavens. 2 movement, progress, headway, advance, progression; speed: The driver slackens his course at the curves. 3 procedure, process, performance, routine, conduct, order, practice, dispatch or despatch, execution: In the course of her duties, she handles a great deal of money. 4 direction, tack: If we stay on this course we'll run aground. 5 class, lecture, seminar, programme: You should sign up for a course in English grammar. 6 of course. naturally, surely, certainly, positively, obviously, definitely, assuredly, by all means; undoubtedly, indubitably, without (a) doubt, no doubt, Colloq US sure: Of course I'll go to the theatre with you!
COWARD|12|n. poltroon, craven, dastard, sissy or cissy, baby, mouse, milksop; Scaramouch or Scaramouche; Colloq chicken, Slang yellow-belly; US and Canadian milquetoast: He's such a coward that he's afraid of his own shadow.
CRAFTY|14|adj. artful, cunning, clever, shrewd, foxy, canny, wily, sly, scheming, calculating, designing, plotting, tricky, sneaky, deceitful, shifty, dodgy, guileful, insidious, double-dealing, two-faced, duplicitous, treacherous: That crafty beggar has made off with my life's savings.
CRANKY|15|adj. 1 eccentric, odd, weird, strange, queer, peculiar, quirky, capricious, whimsical: He's a cranky old bird who hardly goes out at all. 2 testy, grouchy, crabby, short-tempered, surly, irascible, waspish, churlish, gruff, curmudgeonly, cantankerous, choleric, snappish, petulant, peevish, contentious, querulous, irritable, splenetic, Colloq crotchety: He's always cranky before breakfast.
CRANNY|9|n. chink, crevice, crack, fissure, check, fracture, break, furrow, split, cleft: Flowers grew from the crannies in the ancient wall.
CREATE|8|v. 1 make, produce, form, bring into being, originate, conceive; sire, father: The question remains whether God created Man or vice versa. 2 engender, beget, spawn, generate, invent, imagine, think up, frame, forge, fashion, fabricate, manufacture, develop, design, contrive, devise, produce, dream up, initiate: Here is where they create many of the most successful television advertisements.
CREDIT|9|n. 1 belief, faith, trust, credence: I don't give much credit to what they say. 2 creditation, acknowledgement or acknowledgment, attribution, ascription: Credit for inventing the telegraph goes to Guglielmo Marconi. 3 trust, confidence, faithfulness, reliability, trustworthiness, honesty, probity, dependability; solvency: Her credit rating at the bank is excellent. 4 honour, commendation, praise, tribute, acclaim, esteem, recognition, merit: The team's victory in the finals has brought credit to the school. --v. 5 believe, trust, hold accountable, put or place one's faith or confidence in, have faith or confidence in, rely on, accept, depend on or upon: If you credit the Bible, the world was created in six days. 6 ascribe, acknowledge, attribute, assign; impute: The goal was credited to Barnes.
CRINGE|5|v. 1 cower, wince, flinch, quail, recoil, blench, tremble, quiver, quake or shake in one's boots or shoes, shrink: That dirty little coward cringed even when they called his name. 2 defer, kowtow, grovel, crawl, fawn, boot-lick, US apple-polish; Slang kiss someone's arse or US and Canadian ass, Taboo slang brown-nose: The man cringed before the magistrate, his eyes downcast, tugging his forelock.
CRISIS|8|n. 1 turning-point, critical time or moment: She has passed the crisis and will be better tomorrow. 2 disaster, emergency, calamity, catastrophe, danger: The storm has created a crisis and the residents are being evacuated.
CROUCH|6|v. bend (down), squat (down), hunker down, stoop (down): If you crouch down, no one will see you in the bushes.
CRUISE|8|v. 1 sail, coast, travel, journey, voyage; yacht: We cruise in the Caribbean during the winter. --n. 2 sail, voyage, journey, boat or yachting trip: I took a three-day cruise around the Isle of Wight.
CRUNCH|6|v. 1 chew, bite, crush, grind, munch: He crunched the nuts between his teeth. --n. 2 moment of truth, decision time, crisis, critical moment, showdown, crux, juncture: You can count on me when it comes to the crunch.
CUDDLE|6|v. 1 snuggle up (to), nestle or huddle (against): She cuddled the baby closer to her. 2 caress, embrace, fondle, hug, pet, bill and coo, make love (to), Colloq neck, smooch, Australian and New Zealand smoodge or smooge, Slang US make out (with), watch the submarine races: The couple were cuddling in the back seat. --n. 3 hug, embrace, snuggle: Give us a cuddle, Janie.
CUSTOM|10|n. 1 practice, habit, usage, fashion, way, wont, tradition, routine, convention, form: According to custom, the warriors of the tribe paint their bodies. 2 customs. toll, duty, impost, tax, excise, levy, dues, tariff: He was assigned to collect customs and port duties. 3 patronage, support, business, trade: The new butcher needs as much custom as possible. --adv. 4 specially, especially, expressly, exclusively, particularly; to order: All her clothes are custom-made.
DABBLE|5|v. 1 dip, splash, spatter, sprinkle, bespatter, besprinkle, bedabble: I sat on the rock, dabbling my toes in the pool. 2 dabble in or with or at. tinker, trifle (with), potter or US putter, dally, Colloq fool (around or about or with or about with): She's not seriously interested in music - she just dabbles in it.
DAGGER|5|n. knife, poniard, skean, short sword, stiletto, dirk, blade, kris, bowie knife, bayonet: It was his dagger that was sticking out of the man's back.
DAINTY|10|adj. 1 delicate, graceful, fine, elegant, exquisite, neat: The value lies in this dainty border painted round the edge of the cup. 2 fastidious, sensitive, squeamish, finicky or finical, over-nice, overrefined, genteel, mincing: He seems somewhat dainty in his choice of words. 3 choice, delicious, delectable, tasty, appetizing, palatable, toothsome: They were given a few dainty morsels to nibble while waiting. --n. 4 delicacy, sweetmeat, treat, comfit, titbit or US tidbit, morsel: A plate of dainties was placed beside the bed each night.
DAMAGE|10|n. 1 harm, injury, hurt, impairment, mutilation, destruction, devastation: Fortunately, there was little damage from the storm. 2 expense, price, cost; bill, invoice, US check: At the restaurant, the damage came to ø50. 3 damages. compensation, reparation, indemnity: We won the suit and were awarded damages of ø10,000 for defamation of character. --v. 4 harm, hurt, injure; wound; mutilate, disfigure, mar, deface; wreck, ruin, spoil, impair: Although the car was badly damaged, the passengers escaped unharmed. Will this news damage your chances of a promotion?
DAMPEN|11|v. 1 damp, moisten, sprinkle, bedew: Dampen the clothes before ironing them. 2 stifle, deaden, damp, check, chill, cool, restrain, retard, lessen, diminish, reduce, suppress, abate, moderate, allay, subdue, temper, dull, discourage: His constant chattering on about himself dampened her ardour.
DANGER|8|n. 1 peril, risk, threat, hazard, jeopardy: The danger of an avalanche is too great to go skiing. 2 in danger of. likely (to be), liable (to be): If you drink and drive, you are in danger of causing a road accident.
DANGLE|8|v. 1 hang (down), droop, depend, swing, sway: The rope dangled from the top of the flag-pole. 2 flaunt, brandish, wave, flourish: Competitors often dangle big salary increases in front of those who agree to leave our company. 3 wait, Slang cool one's heels: They have kept me dangling for weeks for their decision.
DAPPER|5|adj. neat, spruce, smart, trim, well-dressed, well turned out, stylish, fashionable, elegant, chic, dressy; Colloq got up or dressed to the nines, dressed to kill, swanky or swank, ritzy; Slang snazzy, nifty, spiffy, sharp, swell, classy: Tony looks very dapper in his new Savile Row suit.
DAPPLE|5|adj. 1 spotted, dotted, mottled, speckled, flecked, dappled; brindled; pied, piebald, skewbald, paint, flea-bitten, US pinto: Take the chestnut mare - I'll ride the dapple grey. --v. 2 spot, dot, mottle, speckle, bespeckle, stipple: Dapple paint on the wall with a sponge to get a mottled effect.
DARING|4|n. 1 courage, boldness, bravery, valour, intrepidity, fearlessness, grit, pluck, spirit, mettle, adventurousness, derring-do, Colloq guts, spunk, nerve; Slang Brit bottle: Diving from a cliff into the sea takes a lot of daring. --adj. 2 bold, audacious, courageous, brave, valorous, intrepid, fearless, unafraid, plucky, mettlesome, adventurous, venturesome, hardy; rash, reckless, Colloq gutsy, US nervy: In the 19th century, a few daring explorers penetrated the jungles of Africa.
DAWDLE|11|v. linger, loiter, straggle, delay, procrastinate, dally, lounge, laze, idle, lag, lie about, waste time, Colloq dilly-dally, shilly-shally: We have to catch the next train, so stop dawdling.
DAZZLE|5|v. 1 impress, bewitch, enchant, charm, beguile, intrigue, captivate, fascinate, spellbind, entrance, hypnotize, mesmerize: Every man in the room was dazzled by Mrs d'Arcy's brilliant wit and good looks. 2 See daze, def. 1. --n. 3 brilliance, splendour, magnificence, sparkle, glitter, Slang razzle-dazzle, razzmatazz: Many actors are lured to New York by the dazzle of Broadway.
DEADEN|8|v. 1 numb, benumb, paralyse, anaesthetize, desensitize, dull; damp: This injection will deaden your hand and you'll feel no pain. 2 weaken, moderate, soothe, mitigate, assuage, reduce, lessen, diminish, alleviate, cushion, soften, mollify, blunt, dull: He took to drink to deaden the shock of losing his only son.
DEADLY|11|adj. 1 lethal, fatal; dangerous, pernicious, poisonous, noxious, toxic; baleful, harmful, nocuous: This drug is deadly if taken in large doses. 2 mortal, implacable, ruthless, savage: They were deadly enemies long after the war was over. 3 murderous, homicidal, bloodthirsty, brutal, vicious, ferocious, barbarous, barbaric, savage, inhuman, cold-blooded, heartless, ruthless, pitiless, merciless: Two deadly killers have escaped from Dartmoor prison. 4 deathly, deathlike, pale, pallid, ghostly, cadaverous, ghastly, wan, white, livid, ashen: He turned a deadly hue, as if he had seen a ghost. 5 boring, excruciating, dull, tiresome, tedious, dreary, humdrum, lacklustre, wearying, wearisome: It was a deadly play put on by deadly actors. 6 exact, precise, accurate, true, unerring, unfailing: Each arrow hit the bull's-eye with deadly accuracy.
DEALER|7|n. trader, businessman, businesswoman, merchant, tradesman, retailer, shopkeeper, vendor, merchandiser; wholesaler, jobber, distributor, stockist, supplier; broker, agent, salesman, US storekeeper: He has been a dealer in precious gems for years.
DEARLY|10|adv. 1 greatly, very much, indeed, sincerely: I should dearly like to go, but I cannot. 2 affectionately, fondly, lovingly, tenderly: He loves his mother very dearly. 3 expensively, dear, at great cost or expense, at a high or excessive price, punitively: The victory at Thalamos was dearly bought.
DEBASE|9|v. 1 lower, degrade, devalue, depreciate, depress, demote, deprecate, belittle, diminish, reduce, disparage: Words which denote fine qualities are in time debased. 2 adulterate, contaminate, taint, pollute, corrupt, mar, spoil, impair, vitiate, abase, defile, bastardize; poison: To increase profits, the manufacturer has debased the traditional formula.
DEBATE|9|n. 1 discussion, argument, dispute, altercation, controversy, wrangle, contention, polemic; argumentation: I refuse to take sides in the debate over social services. 2 deliberation, consideration, (careful) thought, reflection, cogitation, meditation, contemplation: Payment of reparations to the victims of the disaster is a matter for debate. --v. 3 argue, wrangle, dispute, contest, contend; discuss, moot, question: We debated only the most important issues. 4 deliberate, consider, reflect (on), mull over, ponder (over), weigh, ruminate (over), meditate (on or over), think (over or on), think through: I have often debated in my own mind the question of capital punishment.
DECEIT|9|n. 1 deception, deceitfulness, fraud, fraudulence, cheating, trickery, chicanery or chicane, dissimulation, dishonesty, misrepresentation, double-dealing, duplicity, hypocrisy, treachery, underhandedness, guile, craft, slyness, craftiness, cunning, knavery, funny business, Colloq hanky-panky, monkey business: Inside traders on the Stock Exchange profit enormously from deceit. 2 trick, subterfuge, stratagem, ploy, ruse, manoeuvre, artifice, wile, hoax, swindle, double-cross, misrepresentation, pretence, sham, contrivance, shift, confidence trick, subreption, gloze, Brit dialect or colloq US flam; Colloq flimflam; Slang scam, con, con trick, con game: She was sick of all his lies and deceits.
DECENT|9|adj. 1 becoming, suitable, appropriate, proper, seemly, fitting: Despite the life she led, the woman should have a decent burial. 2 seemly, decorous, tasteful, dignified, mannerly, nice, clean, respectable, polite, modest, presentable, acceptable: Hereafter, you will use only decent language when speaking to me! 3 adequate, acceptable, passable, fair, competent, mediocre, middling, fair to middling, moderate, respectable, not bad, ordinary, so so, not outstanding, unimpressive, average, neither here nor there, all right, reasonable, tolerable, satisfactory, good enough, Colloq OK or okay: Sales in the first quarter were decent but hardly outstanding. 4 courteous, proper, right, fair, honest, honourable, friendly, considerate, gracious, nice, thoughtful, obliging, kind, generous, accommodating: You can count on David to do the decent thing. 5 chaste, pure, virtuous, modest, well-bred, decorous, well brought up, nice, respectable: Caroline is a decent girl, but no great brain or beauty.
DECIDE|6|v. 1 determine, settle, resolve, conclude, take or reach or come to a decision or conclusion, make up one's mind, arbitrate, judge, adjudicate, referee, umpire: She decided that you were right. They decided the case in my favour. 2 decide on or upon. fix or fasten or settle on or upon, choose, select, pick (out), elect, opt (for), commit oneself (to): I have decided on a British-made car.
DECREE|7|n. 1 order, mandate, directive, ordinance, edict, law, statute, regulation, enactment, act, ruling, dictum, dictate, injunction, sanction, manifesto, proclamation, promulgation, determination, decision, judgement, rescript, prescription, pronunciamento, firman, ukase, Rom Cath Ch decretal: The star chamber issued a decree restricting the freedom of the press. --v. 2 order, command, direct, rule, mandate, ordain, dictate, charge, enjoin, proclaim, pronounce, prescribe, decide, determine, adjudge, Scots law decern: The council has decreed that no spirits can be sold on Sundays.
DEDUCE|10|v. conclude, infer, understand, gather, assume, presume, derive, draw, work out, divine, glean, take it, suppose, surmise, suspect, Slang Brit suss out: From the tone of his letter she deduced that he was going to change his mind.
DEDUCT|10|v. subtract, take away or out or off, take from, remove, withdraw, Colloq knock off: Deduct six from ten and you're left with four.
DEEPEN|7|v. 1 dig out, burrow, sink, dredge, excavate, scoop (out): We'll have to deepen the hole to support the flag-pole. 2 intensify, increase, concentrate, strengthen, expand, magnify: The programme reflects a deepening interest in education.
DEEPLY|10|adv. 1 deep, (far) downwards or inwards, way down, deep down: The glacier was deeply fissured. She swam to the surface and inhaled deeply. 2 profoundly, intensely, strongly, powerfully, very much, acutely, keenly, gravely, greatly, to a great extent, extremely, thoroughly, completely, entirely, seriously, severely, irrevocably, unreservedly; passionately, heavily, emotionally: She is deeply involved with a man from Kent. They were deeply committed to the labour movement.
DEFACE|12|v. mar, disfigure, spoil, ruin, deform, blemish, damage, mutilate, harm, impair, injure, destroy: Nothing should be allowed to deface the beauty of these buildings.
DEFEAT|10|v. 1 overcome, conquer, vanquish, be victorious over, get the better of, beat, subdue, overwhelm, overpower, prevail over, triumph over, bring down, worst, thrash, rout, repulse, overthrow, trounce, whip, crush, destroy, do in, best: The champion defeated the contender in a ten-round match. 2 thwart, frustrate, disappoint, check, balk, stop, terminate, end, finish, foil: He never let his handicap defeat his hopes of winning. --n. 3 conquest, overthrow, beating, repulse, trouncing, rout, vanquishment: The defeat of our team must be charged to lack of training. 4 frustration, undoing, failure, miscarriage, set-back; Waterloo: The stock market crash spelled the defeat of the company's plan for a share issue.
DEFECT|12|n. 1 shortcoming, deficiency, lack, want, inadequacy, insufficiency, shortfall, failure, weakness, frailty, weak point, imperfection, irregularity, liability: See the doctor about that hearing defect. 2 blemish, imperfection, failing, weakness, flaw, fault, mark, stain, irregularity, mistake, error: The products should be inspected for defects before shipping. --v. 3 desert, change sides or loyalties, turn traitor, go over; escape: Ropovich tried to defect, but the Albanians sent him back.
DEFEND|11|v. 1 protect, watch over, guard, safeguard, keep (safe), shelter, shield, screen, preserve; fight for: We must defend our civil rights. 2 fortify, arm, secure; fend or ward off, parry: Can you defend your position from attack? 3 plead for, speak or stand up for, stick up for, go to bat for, support, uphold, stand by, champion, stand with or behind or beside, argue for or in behalf of, hold a brief for, espouse: The lawyers defended her right to free speech.
DEFINE|10|v. 1 determine, establish, fix, demarcate, mark off or out, delimit, limit, lay or set down, circumscribe, specify,, identify, delineate, describe: You must first define the subjects to be covered. 2 describe, explain, interpret, spell out, detail, clarify, delineate, expand on, expatiate on or upon, delineate; characterize, state, name: No one dictionary defines all the words of a language. Please define exactly what you want me to do.
DEGREE|6|n. 1 grade, level, stage, class, caste, rank, order, scale, standing, status, station, position, situation, estate, condition: He is entertaining a lady of high degree. 2 measure, magnitude, extent, limit, point; lengths, step: All our needs, desires, and goals are biologically determined to some degree. 3 by degrees. little by little, bit by bit, step by step, inch by inch, inchmeal, gradually, slowly, (almost) imperceptibly: By degrees, her health has improved. 4 to a degree. a rather, somewhat, quite: She is to a degree a better dancer than he. b substantially, considerably, highly, decidedly, exceedingly, to a considerable extent: She must be stupid to a degree if she believes in levitation.
DELETE|7|v. erase, cancel, rub or cross out or off, remove, blot out, expunge, efface, eliminate, obliterate, wipe out, eradicate, strike out, cut or edit (out), Publishing blue-pencil; Printing dele: Delete the old address and insert the new one.
DEMAND|10|v. 1 require, order, bid, call (for); insist, command: I demand that you retract that remark! She demanded to know where he was going. 2 claim, ask (for), require, insist on; exact: They had paid for tickets and demanded entrance. 3 require, call for, need, want, necessitate, cry out for: This superb dish demands an excellent claret. 4 ask (for), inquire or enquire, request; requisition: We demanded help from the police. --n. 5 request, bid, behest, requisition, order, insistence; outcry: Our demand for service went unheeded. 6 want, need, requirement, desire; market (demand), marketability; consumer or customer acceptance: The demand for our products is low at the moment. 7 in demand. wanted, needed, requested, coveted, popular, sought after, desired, desirable, Brit in request, US on request: Bright graduates are always in demand. 8 on demand. on call, on request, on presentation, when requested or required; at once, immediately, without delay: These notes are payable on demand.
DENIAL|7|n. 1 contradiction, negation, repudiation, refutation, disavowal, disclaimer, disaffirmation: Her denials notwithstanding, she was found guilty. 2 retraction, recantation, renunciation, withdrawal: The arbitrary denial of civil rights to some is unconscionable. 3 refusal, rejection, negation; veto: The boy's persistent denial of authority went into his record.
DENOTE|7|v. 1 indicate, specify, designate, distinguish, signify, mark, note: Hypothetical linguistic forms are denoted by an asterisk. 2 mean, name, symbolize, represent, betoken: The word mother denotes 'female parent', but its connotations are far more extensive.
DEPEND|10|v. 1 depend (on or upon). be contingent or dependent or conditional on, turn on, hinge on, pivot on, hang on, be subject to, rest on, be influenced or determined or conditioned by: The plans for our picnic depend on the weather. 2 depend on or upon. trust (in), rely on, count on, reckon on, bank on, be sure of, put one's faith or trust in: I knew we could depend on you, Giles, to do the right thing.
DEPUTY|12|n. substitute, replacement, surrogate, stand-in, reserve, proxy; agent, operative, representative, go-between, intermediary, spokesperson, spokesman, spokeswoman, delegate, ambassador, minister, emissary, envoy, legate, (papal) nuncio; Chiefly US alternate: She excused herself from the meeting, leaving her deputy in charge.
DERIDE|8|v. mock, ridicule, scoff (at), jeer (at), laugh (at), make fun or sport (of), tease, taunt, twit, poke fun (at), make a laughing-stock (of), sneer (at), scorn, flout, disdain, pooh-pooh, belittle, diminish, disparage, laugh off, Brit rally, Colloq knock, Brit take the mickey or micky out of: His classmates had always derided his attempts at getting anywhere with the girls.
DERIVE|10|v. 1 draw, extract, get, obtain, acquire, procure, receive, secure, gain, elicit, deduce, educe, infer, gather, collect, harvest, glean, cull, winnow: I derive no pleasure from punishing you. I derived from her remark that she didn't like the play. 2 derive from. arise from or out of, originate in or with or from, emerge from or out of, come (forth) from or out of, arrive from, issue from, proceed from, develop from, spring from, flow from, emanate from, stem from, be traceable or traced to: The word delicate derives from Latin. All our knowledge is derived from experience.
DESERT|7|n. 1 waste, wilderness, wasteland, dust bowl: The nearest oasis was fifty miles away across the desert. --adj. 2 barren, desolate, uninhabited, unpeopled, lonely, deserted; arid, bare, vacant, empty, wild, uncultivated: I was marooned on a desert island. --v. 3 forsake, leave, abandon; jilt, throw over; maroon, strand, leave to twist (slowly) in the wind; Colloq run or walk out on, leave flat or in the lurch, leave high and dry: His courage deserted him when he saw the child's eyes. He has deserted his wife for some floozie. 4 abscond, quit, run away (from), defect, abandon; Military slang go over the hill: He deserted and will be court-martialled.
DESIGN|8|v. 1 plan, draw up, think of, conceive of, contemplate, devise, lay out, visualize, envisage, envision, sketch (out), pattern, set up: The building was originally designed as the centre-piece for a whole new development. 2 plan, sketch (out), delineate, outline, draft, work or map or block out, lay out, devise, invent, contrive, create, conceive, originate, think up, develop, organize, frame, shape, mould, forge, make, construct, form, fashion: John Smithers has designed a new sales strategy for the company. 3 sketch, draft, lay out, draw; form, devise: Who designed the company's new logo? 4 intend, mean, plan; purpose, destine; scheme, plot: The building was originally designed to be a school. The book was designed for children. --n. 5 plan, scheme, conception, study, project, proposal, undertaking, enterprise; blueprint, pattern, chart, diagram, layout, map, drawing, draft, sketch, model, prototype: The grand design for rebuilding the city was not approved. 6 form, shape, configuration, pattern, style, motif, format, layout, make-up, delineation, arrangement, organization, composition, structure, construction: I don't much care for her new design of my monogram. 7 aim, purpose, intention, objective, object, goal, point, target, intent: My design had been to go at once to London. 8 designs. plot, intrigue, stratagem, cabal, conspiracy, conniving, manipulation, connivance, evil intent or intentions: His designs against me have borne bitter fruit.
DESIRE|7|v. 1 crave, want, fancy, covet, wish for, hope for, long or yearn for, pine or sigh for, hanker after, have an eye or taste for, hunger or thirst for or after, die for, have one's heart set on, give one's eye-teeth for, Colloq have a yen for, Slang US have the hots for: I desire nothing but your happiness. He desired her more than anything else in the world. 2 ask for, request, order, demand, solicit, importune, summon, require: Do you desire anything further, sir? --n. 3 longing, craving, yearning, hankering, hunger, thirst, appetite; passion, lust, libido, lustfulness, concupiscence, lecherousness, lechery, lasciviousness, salaciousness, prurience, Slang hot pants, US the hots; Colloq yen: He felt desire rising in him like a fever. 4 wish, request, urge, requirement, order, requisition, demand, desideratum; appeal, entreaty, petition: He fulfils her every desire.
DESPOT|9|n. absolute ruler, dictator, tyrant, oppressor, autocrat: History has painted Ivan the Terrible as one of the cruellest despots of all time.
DETACH|5|v. separate, uncouple, part, disjoin, disengage, disunite, disconnect, disentangle, free, unfasten, undo, cut off, remove: She carefully detached the printer lead from the back of the computer.
DETAIL|7|n. 1 particular, element, factor, point, fact, specific, technicality, component, item, feature; aspect, respect, count: He gave us a general idea of the plan but not a single detail. 2 details. particulars, minutiae, niceties, fine points, specifics, technicalities: Must we go into all the details of his dismissal? 3 detachment, squad, party, cadre, duty, fatigue, group: The sergeant appointed a detail to police the area. 4 in detail. specifically, particularly, thoroughly, in depth, item by item, point by point, exhaustively, comprehensively, inside out, perfectly: We examined the report in detail. --v. 5 specify, spell out, itemize, delineate, catalogue, list, tabulate, enumerate, particularize, recount, cite (chapter and verse): She detailed every little move I was to make. 6 assign, appoint, charge, delegate, name, specify, send: We have been detailed to act as your bodyguard during your visit.
DETECT|9|v. 1 uncover, find (out), discover, locate, learn of, ascertain, determine, dig up, unearth: The pathologist detected the presence of prussic acid in the victim's bloodstream. 2 perceive, note, notice, identify, spot, observe, sense, read, scent, smell, discern, feel, catch, find: Did I detect a tone of sarcasm in your reply, young man?
DETEST|7|v. despise, loathe, hate, abhor, execrate, abominate: They served turnips, which I detest, and sat me next to Ida, whom I also detest.
DETOUR|7|n. 1 diversion, deviation, circuitous route or way, roundabout way, bypass: The detour took us five miles out of our way. --v. 2 deviate, turn (away) from, divert, bypass: I detoured from the main road and took a short cut.
DEVICE|12|n. 1 contrivance, mechanism, machine, machinery, implement, utensil, apparatus, instrument, appliance, tool, gadget, gimmick, Colloq contraption, widget, thingumajig or thingamajig, Brit gubbins: She has patented a device for peeling hard-boiled eggs. 2 stratagem, scheme, trick, artifice, ruse, plot, ploy, gambit, strategy, manoeuvre, machination; machinery, apparatus, mechanism, contrivance, gimmick, tool, weapon: They resorted to a variety of devices in order to achieve their ends. That lawyer used every device he could think of to separate Cornelia from her inheritance. 3 design, emblem, figure, (heraldic) bearing, insigne, cadency mark, mark of cadency, hallmark, trade mark, symbol, badge, coat of arms, seal, crest, colophon, logotype, logo, monogram, charge, cognizance, signet; motto, slogan, legend: The device - a closed eye - is that of Lord Boring. 4 devices. pleasure, disposition, will, inclination, fancy, desire, whim: Left to his own devices, he'll survive very well indeed.
DEVISE|10|v. 1 concoct, make up, conceive, scheme, contrive, dream up, design, draft, frame, form, formulate, plan, arrange, work out, think up, originate, invent, create, Colloq cook up: He devised a method for making sandals out of leather scraps. 2 bequeath, will, convey, hand down, give, assign, dispose of, transfer, bestow: I devise to my nephew, Ian Ferguson, my property in Yorkshire.
DEVOTE|10|v. 1 apply, appropriate, assign, allot, commit, allocate, set aside or apart, put away or aside, dedicate, consecrate: Each of the chapels was devoted to a separate sect. 2 apply, pledge, dedicate, commit, give up: She has devoted her life to helping others.
DEVOUR|10|v. 1 wolf (down), gulp (down), bolt, swallow (up), gorge, gobble (up), gormandize, cram, stuff, eat (up) greedily, Archaic gluttonize; Colloq Brit pig, US and Canadian pig out (on): He was so hungry when he came in that he devoured two whole pies and a plate of chips. 2 consume, waste, destroy, wipe out, ravage, annihilate, demolish, ruin, wreak havoc (up)on, devastate, obliterate, eradicate: A quarter of Europe was already devoured by the plague. 3 relish, revel in, absorb, be absorbed by; engulf, consume, drink in, eat up, swallow up, take in; swamp, overcome, overwhelm: He eagerly devoured all of Dickens's novels. The sea devoured its victims silently.
DEVOUT|10|adj. 1 devoted, pious, religious, reverent, worshipful, faithful, dedicated, staunch, churchgoing; holy, godly, saintly, pure: When I last saw him, he had become a devout Christian. 2 devotional, reverential, religious, solemn: Through devout prayer one might see the kingdom of heaven. 3 earnest, sincere, genuine, hearty, heartfelt, devoted, ardent, zealous: You have my devout best wishes for your happiness.
DICKER|5|v. 1 bargain, trade, barter, deal, haggle, negotiate: If I dicker with him, he may drop his price. --n. 2 bargain, deal, haggle, negotiation: We had a bit of a dicker but finally settled on a figure.
DIFFER|5|v. 1 diverge, deviate, be separate or distinct, be dissimilar or different, contrast; depart: Even the leaves of the same tree differ from one another. These substances differ in their magnetic properties. 2 disagree, conflict, contradict, be contradictory, vary, be at variance, take issue, part company, fall out, quarrel, argue: Opinions differ as to the best way to bring up children. She differed with me on many subjects.
DIGEST|8|v. 1 assimilate: She has trouble digesting milk. 2 bear, stand, endure, survive, assimilate, accept, tolerate, brook, swallow, stomach: The attack was too much for even him to digest. 3 comprehend, assimilate, understand, take in, consider, grasp, study, ponder, meditate (on or over), reflect on, think over, weigh: I need a little time to digest the new regulations. 4 abbreviate, cut, condense, abridge, compress, epitomize, summarize, reduce, shorten: Her assistant had digested the report into four pages by noon. --n. 5 condensation, abridgment or abridgement, abstract, pr÷cis, r÷sum÷, synopsis, summary, conspectus, abbreviation: I never did read the original novel, only a digest.
DILUTE|7|v. water (down), thin (down or out), cut, weaken, doctor, adulterate; mitigate, lessen, diminish, decrease: For the table, wine was often diluted with water. He dilutes his argument by citing irrelevancies.
DIRECT|9|v. 1 manage, handle, run, administer, govern, regulate, control, operate, superintend, supervise, command, head up, rule; Colloq call the shots: She directs the company with an iron hand. 2 guide, lead, conduct, pilot, steer, show or point (the way), be at the helm; advise, counsel, instruct, mastermind; usher, escort: He has directed the company for 40 years, through good times and bad. Can you direct me to the post office? 3 rule, command, order, require, bid, tell, instruct, charge, dictate, enjoin; appoint, ordain: He directed that the attack be launched at dawn. 4 aim, focus, level, point, train; turn: That bullet was directed at my heart. Direct your attention to the front of the room. 5 send, address, post, mail: Please direct the letter to my home. --adj. 6 straight, unswerving, shortest, undeviating, through: We turned off the direct road to take in the view. 7 uninterrupted, unreflected, unrefracted, without interference, unobstructed: She cannot remain in direct sunlight for very long. 8 unbroken, lineal: He claims to be a direct descendant of Oliver Cromwell's. 9 straightforward, unmitigated, outright, matter-of-fact, categorical, plain, clear, unambiguous, unmistakable, to the point, without or with no beating about the bush, unqualified, unequivocal, point-blank, explicit, express: I expect a direct answer to my direct question. Have you direct evidence of his guilt? That was a gross insult and a direct lie! 10 straightforward, frank, candid, outspoken, plain-spoken, honest, blunt, open, uninhibited, unreserved, forthright, honest, sincere, unequivocal; undiplomatic, tactless: She is very direct in commenting about people she dislikes.
DISMAL|9|adj. depressing, gloomy, cheerless, melancholy, sombre, dreary, sad, bleak, funereal, lugubrious, forlorn, morose, solemn, dark, grim, wretched, woebegone, woeful, black, blue, joyless, doleful, dolorous, unhappy, miserable, lowering; pessimistic: She was alone, alone on the dismal moor. The prospects for the company looked very dismal.
DISMAY|12|v. 1 alarm, frighten, scare, terrify, appal, panic, horrify, petrify, intimidate, cow, disconcert, unnerve: We were dismayed when the motor-cycle gang came to the house. 2 unsettle, discompose, upset, discourage, take aback, startle, shock, put off, dishearten: I was dismayed to hear she was still married to Grimsby. --n. 3 consternation, alarm, anxiety, agitation, terror, panic, horror, shock, fright, fear, trepidation, apprehension, dread, awe: The thought of the children alone in the boat filled me with dismay.
DIVERS|10|adj. various, several, sundry; miscellaneous, multifarious, manifold, varied, assorted, variegated, differing, different; some, numerous, many: We have the divers statements of the witnesses.
DIVERT|10|v. 1 switch, rechannel, redirect; change, alter, deflect: Funds for the new civic centre have been diverted to housing. We must divert the course of the river. 2 turn away, turn aside, avert, re-route, deflect; change course, swerve (off or away), shift, sidetrack, depart, deviate: Cars were diverted to avoid flooded areas. We diverted from our route because of the roadworks. 3 entertain, amuse, distract, interest, beguile, engage, occupy, absorb: We found the stand-up comedian mildly diverting but not really funny.
DIVEST|10|v. 1 strip, denude, rid, get rid, relieve, disencumber, deprive, dispossess; despoil, mulct: The company has been divested of all its assets. 2 divest oneself of. take or put off, doff, remove; disrobe,unclothe, undress: She divested herself of her fur coat.
DIVIDE|11|v. 1 separate, split (up), break up, cleave, cut up or asunder, partition, segregate, subdivide; disconnect, disjoin, detach, sever, sunder, part: Argyle divided his mountaineers into three regiments. A divided nation cannot stand. Some would like to see Britain divided from continental Europe. 2 Sometimes, divide up. distribute, share (out), measure out, parcel out, partition, dole (out), deal (out), mete out, allocate, allot, apportion, dispense, give (out): The remaining food was divided among us. 3 separate, split, cause to disagree, alienate, disunite, set at odds, sow dissension (among), pit or set against one another, disaffect: Racial issues still divide the people. 4 branch (out), ramify, split, separate: The road divides there and passes on each side of that huge rock. 5 categorize, classify, sort, assort, grade, group, (put in) order, rank, organize, arrange: You have to divide the books into several piles according to size.
DIVINE|10|adj. 1 godlike, godly, holy, deiform, deific, angelic, seraphic, saintly; heavenly, celestial; sacred, sanctified, hallowed, consecrated, religious, spiritual: They believe in the divine right of kings. He receives divine inspiration at divine services. 2 superhuman, supernatural, gifted, pre-eminent, superior, excellent, supreme, exalted, transcendent, extraordinary: Even the divine Homer nods. 3 great, marvellous, splendid, superlative, glorious, superb, admirable, wonderful, awesome, perfect, excellent, beautiful, Colloq super, great, terrific, smashing, fantastic, splendiferous, Colloq Brit ace, magic: They say that the new musical is simply divine. --v. 4 intuit, imagine, conjecture, guess, assume, presume, infer, suppose, hypothesize, surmise, suspect, understand, perceive, speculate, theorize, predict, foretell, have foreknowledge of; determine, discover: He had divined that she might be there. --n. 5 holy man, priest, clergyman, cleric, ecclesiastic, minister, pastor, reverend, churchman, prelate: At his club, he enjoys the company of bishops, archbishops, and other divines.
DOCTOR|9|n. 1 physician, medical practitioner, M.D., general practitioner, G.P., Colloq medic, medico, doc, sawbones, bones: You ought to see a doctor about that cough. --v. 2 treat, attend, medicate; cure, heal; practise medicine: She knows very little about doctoring children, in spite of having worked as a general practitioner. 3 mend, repair, patch (up), fix: We doctored the tyre as best we could. 4 falsify, tamper with, adulterate, disguise, change, modify, alter; cut, dilute, water (down); spike; drug, poison: This sauce has been doctored.
DOMAIN|9|n. 1 realm, dominion, territory, property, land(s), province, kingdom, empire: At one time his domain included most of Europe. 2 province, realm, territory, field, bailiwick, area, department, sphere, discipline, speciality, specialization, concern: As a dentist, he considered diseases of the throat outside his domain.
DONATE|7|v. give, provide, supply, present, contribute, subscribe (to or for), pledge, award, bestow, confer, grant, vouchsafe, will, bequeath: Lady Crayford donated two silver candlesticks to our charity drive.
DOOMED|8|adj. 1 fated, cursed, condemned, damned, destined, ordained, foreordained, predestined: She was doomed to live for ever. 2 accursed, bedevilled, ill-fated, luckless, star-crossed, bewitched, condemned: The doomed ship sank to the bottom of the sea.
DOUBLE|4|adj. 1 twofold, paired, coupled, duplicate(d), doubled: The forms banned and banning are spelt with a double n . 2 folded or doubled or bent over, overlapped, two-ply: This wound needs a double bandage. 3 dual, twofold, ambiguous, double-barrelled: He pronounced it 'de-seat', giving deceit a double meaning. 4 twice: The plant had grown to double its size. 5 deceitful, dishonest, treacherous, traitorous, insincere, hypocritical, double-dealing, false: It was Maria who exposed Fernando as a double agent. --v. 6 duplicate, replicate; copy; increase, enlarge; magnify: We'll have to double our milk order. --n. 7 twin, duplicate, copy, replica, facsimile, clone, copy, counterpart, doppelgänger, look-alike, stand-in, understudy, Slang (dead) ringer, spitting image or spit and image: He could be Clint Eastwood's double. 8 at or on the double. quickly, on the run, at full speed or tilt, briskly, immediately, at once, without delay, Slang p.d.q. (= 'prety damned quick'): Put down that book and come over here on the double!
DREAMY|12|adj. 1 dreamlike, vague, indefinite, indistinct, undefined, intangible, misty, shadowy, faint: He has a dreamy recollection of being awakened in the middle of the night. 2 absent-minded, absent, far-away, abstracted, pensive, thoughtful; day-dreaming, musing, occupied, in a reverie, in a brown study, in the clouds; Colloq off somewhere: I was in a dreamy mood, my mind wandering through old memories. 3 relaxing, soothing, calming, lulling, gentle, tranquil, peaceful, peaceable, quiet; lazy, sleepy, drowsy: It was one of those dreamy, hot midsummer days.
DREARY|10|adj. 1 dismal, joyless, cheerless, gloomy, bleak, drear, sombre, doleful, depressing, wretched; sad, melancholy, downcast, depressed, funereal, glum, unhappy, forlorn, mournful, morose, blue, miserable: One more day on these dreary moors and I shall go mad. Caroline was again in a dreary mood. 2 boring, lifeless, colourless, ennuyant, drab, dull, arid, dry, uninteresting, dead, monotonous, prosaic, tedious, tiresome, tiring, wearisome, wearying, humdrum, ordinary, vapid, run-of-the-mill, unstimulating, unexciting: Do you mean to tell me that that dreary book is a best seller!
DRENCH|5|v. soak, saturate, wet, flood, inundate, immerse, drown: She had no coat or umbrella and got completely drenched in the storm.
DRESSY|8|adj. 1 formal, dressed-up, elegant, fancy, chic: A black suit is too dressy to wear tonight - it's not a dressy party. 2 elegant, smart, stylish, Colloq classy, ritzy, Brit swish: That's a very dressy outfit, I must say!
DRIVEL|10|v. 1 dribble, drool, slobber, slaver: You're drivelling all over the front of your shirt! 2 babble, prate, prattle, gibber, jabber, burble, gabble, chatter, blether or US blather, Colloq jibber-jabber, gab, Brit rabbit or witter or natter on, US run off at the mouth: She keeps drivelling on about her family. --n. 3 gibberish, rubbish, (stuff and) nonsense, twaddle, balderdash, hogwash, Colloq eyewash, tripe, garbage, malarkey, hooey, hot air, bosh, boloney or baloney, Slang crap, bull, bilge (water), codswallop, US horse feathers, Taboo bullshit, balls, Brit (load of old) cobblers: I've never heard so much drivel from a candidate in my entire life!
DROWSY|13|adj. sleepy, heavy-lidded, groggy, somnolent, dozy, oscitant; nodding, yawning; torpid, sluggish, tired, weary, listless, lethargic, lazy: We all felt a bit drowsy after that big dinner.
DUFFER|5|n. incompetent, blunderer, bungler, oaf, Colloq ox, lummox: He may be an expert at computers but he's a duffer at golf.
DURESS|5|n. 1 coercion, threat, pressure, constraint, compulsion; force, power: The boys wash the dishes only under duress. 2 confinement, imprisonment, incarceration, captivity, restraint, Literary durance: There were workhouses, prisons, and other forms of duress.
EARTHY|7|adj. ribald, bawdy, unrefined, coarse, crude, shameless, wanton, uninhibited, abandoned, vulgar, lusty, rough, dirty, indecent, obscene: She found Henry Miller's books a bit too earthy for her tastes.
EASILY|9|adv. 1 smoothly, effortlessly, readily, simply, handily, without a hitch, hands down, without even trying, comfortably, with no or without difficulty, Colloq easy as pie: You can easily tackle the job yourself. 2 by far, beyond or without doubt or question, indisputably, indubitably, undoubtedly, doubtless(ly), unquestionably, clearly, far and away, definitely, definitively, conclusively, certainly, surely, undeniably, obviously, patently: He is easily the best lawyer in the firm. 3 probably, most or very likely, well, almost certainly: We may easily be the first in Hampton to have plaster flamingos on the lawn.
EDIBLE|4|adj. eatable, esculent, palatable, good or fit (to eat), wholesome, Rare comestible: After the sell-by date, fresh food is no longer considered edible.
EDITOR|7|n. rewrite man or woman, rewriter, copy editor, redactor, reviser; writer, columnist, journalist, editorial writer, Brit leader-writer; editor-in-chief, managing editor, senior editor; compiler, collector: The editor sent the reporter out to check the facts of the story.
EFFECT|6|n. 1 result, consequence, outcome, conclusion, upshot, aftermath, impact: The effects of the storm could be seen everywhere. 2 effectiveness, efficacy, force, power, capacity, potency, influence, impression, impact, Colloq clout, punch: His threats had no effect. 3 significance, meaning, signification, purport, sense, essence, drift, implication, import, tenor, purpose, intent, intention, object, objective: She said 'Get lost', or words to that effect. 4 impact, impression, form, sensation: He didn't mean that, he just said it for effect. 5 in effect. effectively, virtually, for (all) practical purposes, so to speak, more or less; actually, in (point of) fact, really, essentially, basically, at bottom, in truth, truly, to all intents and purposes, at the end of the day, any way you look at it: She always spoke of him as her adopted son and this, in effect, was what he was. 6 take effect. become operative or operational, come into force, begin or start to work or function or operate: The regulation doesn't take effect till next week. --v. 7 bring about, cause, make happen or take place, effectuate, achieve, accomplish, secure, obtain, make, execute, carry out, produce, create: The opposition was unable to effect any change in the law.
EFFORT|4|n. 1 exertion, striving, struggle, strain, labour, pains, energy, toil, application, trouble, travail, work, Colloq elbow-grease: He's gone to a lot of effort to please her. Getting the place cleaned up took a great deal of effort. 2 attempt, endeavour, essay, try, venture, Colloq stab, crack: Her efforts to be pleasant met with a stony response. 3 achievement, accomplishment, creation, feat, deed, attainment, exploit: Last year's fund-raising fair was a superb effort.
ELATED|7|adj. exhilarated, uplifted, elevated, gleeful, joyful, jubilant, joyous, exultant, ecstatic, blissful, happy, delighted, euphoric, overjoyed, excited, thrilled, transported, pleased (as Punch), on top of the world, on cloud nine, Colloq tickled, tickled pink, Brit chuffed, over the moon, in the seventh heaven, US in seventh heaven: We were elated to learn that our daughter had won first prize.
ELICIT|4|v. draw out, call forth, evoke, bring out or forth, bring to light, extract, wring, wrest, wrench: They finally elicited the fact that she had been lying about his whereabouts.
ELIXIR|13|n. 1 panacea, cure-all, nostrum, wonder drug, miracle drug, sovereign remedy: In the Middle Ages alchemists sought a universal cure, an elixir. 2 essence, potion, extract, tincture, compound, mixture: Ophidia's Elixir was the name of a patent snake-oil medicine. 3 pith, core, kernel, heart, essence, quintessence, principle, extract, base, basis, soul: The elixir of life is wisdom and its mystic ingredient is not knowledge but understanding.
EMBARK|14|v. 1 board, go aboard; entrain; emplane or enplane: We embarked and the ship sailed. 2 Often, embark on. commence, begin, enter (upon), initiate, launch, start, go into, set about, take up or on, engage in, assume, tackle: He will embark on the new enterprise next month.
EMBERS|10|n.pl. live coals; cinders, ashes; remains, remnants: The dying embers of the fire symbolized her waning love for Darrin.
EMBLEM|7|n. badge, insigne, symbol, representation, device, seal, crest, token, sign; trade mark, logotype or logo: The white knight's emblem was a pair of crossed flaming swords.
EMBODY|14|v. 1 concretize, realize, manifest, express, personify, materialize, reify, actualize, externalize, incarnate: Her feminist convictions are embodied in her lifestyle. 2 exemplify, typify, represent, symbolize, stand for: Note how this painting embodies Longchamp's unique notions of form. 3 consolidate, collect, unite, unify, incorporate, include, integrate, combine, concentrate, systematize, organize, comprise, codify, epitomize, synthesize: The teachings of the sect are embodied in their scriptures.
EMERGE|9|v. 1 appear, come out, come forth, come up, rise; arise, surface, come into view or notice, come to light, be revealed, crop up, turn out, develop, become known, become apparent, transpire, happen, evolve: It emerged that she had bought a pistol that morning. 2 issue, emanate, come forth, proceed: The train emerged from the tunnel.
EMPLOY|13|v. 1 hire, engage, enlist, recruit, enrol, sign (up), take on, retain, commission: I have employed a solicitor to look after my affairs while I am away. The company employed 120 engineers. 2 use, make use of, utilize, apply: We plan to employ the most modern equipment. 3 occupy, take (up), engage, involve: He is employed with his stamp collection.
ENABLE|3|v. 1 qualify, authorize, entitle, permit, allow, sanction, approve, empower, license,commission, entrust, depute, delegate, assign, charter, franchise: An act was passed to enable them to build the railway. 2 capacitate, facilitate, expedite, help, aid, assist: The grant enabled me to continue my studies. 3 permit, allow, approve, assent to, go along with, agree to, give the go-ahead or green light, Colloq OK or okay: Her press pass enables her to get through police lines.
ENDURE|7|v. 1 last, persist, stay, remain, abide, prevail, survive, continue, hold, live (on), Colloq go the distance: Her fame as a poet will endure. 2 stand, abide, tolerate, face, survive, withstand, bear, weather, take (it), suffer, stomach, undergo, hold out (against), Colloq hang in (there), stick or sweat (it or something) out: He endured the pressure of his job as long as he could. 3 suffer, undergo, bear, face, stand, put up with, stomach, take: Consider the tyranny that Europe endured under Hitler.
ENERGY|10|n. vitality, forcefulness, vivacity, liveliness, vigour, animation, spirit, force, dynamism, drive, verve, dash, ÷lan, intensity, power, determination, puissance, strength, might, Colloq pep, vim and vigour, US stick-to-it-iveness, get-up-and-go, zip, zing: At seventy, she just couldn't put as much energy into her performance as she once did.
ENGAGE|8|v. 1 employ, hire, enrol or US also enroll, enlist, retain, sign (up), contract with or for, indenture; rent, book, reserve, secure, bespeak: She was engaged on a part-time basis. We engaged rooms for the night. 2 occupy, engross, busy, absorb, involve, tie up, preoccupy, employ: This task will engage all available resources until the end of next month. 3 pledge, undertake, bargain, agree, covenant, promise, guarantee, contract: I engaged to complete the work by Tuesday. 4 attract, hold, capture, catch, draw: The museum has many exhibits that will engage the interest of children. 5 join (in) combat or battle with, meet, encounter, fight, combat, attack, battle, clash with, grapple with: The enemy was engaged at dawn. 6 engage in. participate (in), partake in, take part (in), enter (into), undertake, embark on: She engages in many out-of-school activities.
ENGINE|7|n. motor, machine, mechanism, appliance, apparatus; locomotive: The invention of the internal combustion engine revolutionized modern transport.
ENIGMA|9|n. puzzle, conundrum, mystery, riddle, poser, problem: How he escaped is an enigma to the police.
ENLIST|6|v. 1 enrol, register, join (up), volunteer, sign up or on; engage, recruit, induct, muster, conscript, impress, call up, US draft: He enlisted in the navy at 17. 2 employ, hire, engage, retain, make available, secure, obtain, get, procure, gather, drum up, mobilize, Colloq organize: We must enlist all the help we can.
ENOUGH|10|adj. 1 sufficient, adequate, ample: There isn't enough food to go round. --n. 2 sufficiency, adequacy, ample supply, plenty: I have enough for myself. --adv. 3 sufficiently, adequately, reasonably, satisfactorily, tolerably, passably: Your word is good enough for me.
ENRAGE|7|v. anger, infuriate, madden, incense, provoke, inflame, make (someone's) blood boil, Colloq get (someone's) back or Irish or hackles or dander up, make (someone) see red, wave a red flag before (someone), make (someone's) blood boil, US burn (someone) up, Slang US tick (someone) off, Taboo piss (someone) off, Brit put (someone's) monkey up, US tee (someone) off: Lord Thimble was enraged at being made to wait his turn.
ENRICH|4|v. 1 endow, enhance, improve, upgrade, better, ameliorate, refine, add to: His novels have enriched our literature. 2 ornament, adorn, decorate, embellish; beautify, grace: Before us rose a lofty dome enriched with precious stones.
ENSURE|6|v. 1 insure, assure, make sure or certain, confirm, certify, guarantee; secure, effect: He must ensure that there is no leak. 2 insure, protect, make safe, safeguard, guard, secure: The captain is responsible for ensuring the safety of the passengers.
ENTAIL|6|v. involve, require, call for, necessitate, demand, occasion, give rise to, impose; lead to, cause: The post has entailed working an average 60-70 hours a week.
ENTICE|8|v. lure, allure, tempt, attract, draw, seduce, coax, persuade, prevail on, beguile, cajole, blandish, wheedle; decoy, lead on, inveigle, Colloq sweet-talk, soft-soap, Slang suck in: The prospectus enticed 3.15 million people to buy shares in the company.
ENTIRE|6|adj. 1 complete, whole, total, full, undivided, absolute, thorough, unreserved, unrestricted, undiminished, unconditional, express, unexceptional, unmixed, unalloyed: That problem has occupied my entire attention all week. 2 intact, whole, sound, unbroken, undamaged, unimpaired, inviolate, without a scratch, unscathed, in one piece: Twelve amphorae were recovered entire from the wreck. 3 continuous, full, whole, complete, uninterrupted: She has lasted an entire year in her new job.
ENTITY|9|n. 1 thing, object, being, existence, quantity, article, individual, organism: The emergence of the youth movement as a separate entity posed problems for the party leadership. 2 essence, real nature, quiddity, quintessence, Metaphysics ens: Every living creature has a distinct entity.
EQUITY|7|n. fairness, impartiality, even-handedness, justice, fair play, objectivity, disinterest, fair-mindedness, equitableness, open-mindedness, disinterestedness, neutrality, tolerance, judiciousness, right-mindedness, high-mindedness: This court recognizes the equity of your claim.
EROTIC|8|adj. 1 sensual, stimulating, suggestive, titillating, risqu÷, bawdy, ribald, seductive, voluptuous, lustful, Colloq sexy: Some insist that there is a difference between pornographic and erotic literature. 2 amatory, venereal, amorous, anacreontic: Many classical poets wrote erotic verse. 3 erogenous, naughty, carnal, arousing, rousing, aphrodisiac, libidinous, lubricious or lubricous, prurient, lascivious, lewd, concupiscent, salacious, obscene, pornographic, dirty, filthy, nasty, Colloq blue: He has a collection of photos that he calls erotic art.
ERRAND|5|n. 1 trip, journey: She was on an errand of mercy. 2 mission, charge, assignment, commission, task, duty: Francis is out running some errands for me.
ESCAPE|6|v. 1 get away, break out or free, bolt, flee, fly, run away or off, elope, decamp, abscond, steal or slip off or away, take to one's heels, take French leave, disappear, vanish, Brit levant, Colloq take off, clear out, cut and run, duck out, make oneself scarce, do a disappearing act, Brit do a moonlight flit, US vamoose, hightail it, skedaddle, US and Canadian skip (town), fly the coop, cut out; Slang vamoose, Brit do a bunk, bugger off, mizzle off, US and Canadian scram, blow, lam out, take it on the lam, take a (run-out) powder, Chiefly Australian shoot through: They escaped when I wasn't looking. 2 evade, elude, avoid, dodge: They escaped detection for years by hiding in a deserted monastery. 3 drain, leak, issue, seep, discharge, emanate: Steam was escaping through a hole. 4 elude, evade, baffle, stump, mystify, puzzle, be forgotten by, be beyond (someone): How the thing started escapes me for the moment. --n. 5 flight, getaway, departure, decampment, bolt, jailbreak, prison-break, Colloq break, break-out: The escape was planned for midnight. 6 distraction, relief, diversion, recreation: He watches westerns as an escape. 7 leakage, leaking, seepage, seeping, drainage, draining, leak, discharge, outpouring, outflow, effluence, efflux, effluxion: An escape of radioactive waste from the nuclear power station had been reported earlier.
ESCORT|4|n. 1 guard, convoy, bodyguard, protection, guardian, protector, chaperon, cortege or cortëge, retinue, entourage, safe conduct, usher, companion: The king rode in with his armed escort. 2 guide, attendant, conductor, leader, cicerone: The curator acted as our escort through the museum. 3 companion; date, boyfriend, beau: Donald is Thea's escort to the ball. --v. 4 accompany, shepherd, squire, usher, conduct, guide, attend: Would you please escort Denise in to dinner? 5 guard, convoy, protect, watch over: The oil tankers were escorted by destroyers.
ESTATE|6|n. 1 property, holdings, domain, demesne, land, landed estate, manor, mansion: They live on a large estate in the south of France. 2 property, holdings, assets, capital, resources, wealth, fortune; belongings, possessions, chattels: The estate was divided among the heirs. 3 estate of the realm, class, caste, order, standing, position, (social) status, state, station, place, situation, stratum, level, rank: By virtue of her high estate, she is entitled to certain privileges. 4 development, Brit (housing or industrial or trading) estate: They live in a council house on an estate near Reading.
ESTEEM|6|v. 1 respect, value, treasure, prize, cherish, hold dear, appreciate, admire, look up to, regard highly, venerate, revere, reverence, honour, defer to; like, love, adore: The novels of Virginia Woolf were greatly esteemed by a small intellectual group. 2 consider, judge, deem, view, regard, hold, estimate, account, believe, think, rate, rank, reckon, evaluate: The Duke was esteemed throughout Europe as 'the perfect knight'. --n. 3 estimation, (high) regard, respect, (high) opinion, favour, admiration, appreciation, approval, approbation: He holds her talents in very high esteem. My esteem for your father's accomplishments is undiminished.
EULOGY|10|n. praise, commendation, acclaim, acclamation, tribute, compliment, applause, homage, plaudits, encomium, accolade, paean, panegyric: The eulogy listed Wotton's many achievements.
EXCEED|14|v. 1 surpass, top, excel, be superior to, go beyond, beat, overwhelm, better, outdistance, pass, overtake, outstrip, outrank, outrun, outdo, outpace, transcend, outshine, outreach, overshadow, eclipse: The success of the new product exceeded our expectations. 2 overstep, go beyond, overextend: His behaviour exceeded the bounds of decency.
EXCEPT|17|prep. 1 Sometimes except for. excepting, save, but, excluding, exclusive of, barring, bar, with the exception of, omitting, not counting, apart from, but for, other than, saving: There was no one there except us. Except for us, no one came. --conj. 2 except that. except or but (for the fact) that, but, save that: He would have gone except that he has no car. --v. 3 exclude, omit, leave out, excuse: As usual, the wealthy were excepted from the tax increase.
EXCESS|13|n. 1 surplus, over-abundance, overflow, superabundance, nimiety, superfluity, surfeit, plethora, glut, redundancy, over-sufficiency, supererogation, leftovers; overkill: The excess of income over expenses constitutes profit. There is an excess of water on the road after a rainstorm. 2 Often, excesses. debauchery, extravagance, immoderation, prodigality, overindulgence, intemperance, dissipation, dissoluteness: Because of their excesses they have been shunned by their friends. --adj. 3 surplus, extra, superfluous, excessive, leftover, residual, remaining: After paying the bills, any excess money goes into savings.
EXCITE|11|v. 1 (a)rouse, spur (on), stir (up), move, animate, enliven, activate, motivate, invigorate, energize, stimulate, cause, provoke, prod, agitate, incite, quicken, urge, (a)wake, (a)waken, call forth, summon (up), elicit, inspire, inspirit, rally, galvanize, electrify, foment, fire (up), inflame, kindle, ignite, initiate, instigate, generate, occasion, begin, start, bring about, effect, set in motion, Colloq get going, spark, wind up, get (someone) (all) steamed up, hop up, US kick-start, light a fire under: The speech excited the crowd's patriotic fervour. 2 agitate, disturb, perturb, stir up, discompose, fluster, ruffle, upset, disconcert: Don't excite the horses. 3 thrill, stir up, titillate, work up, arouse, inflame: Risqu÷ films are intended to excite viewers.
EXCUSE|15|v. 1 forgive, pardon, overlook, absolve, clear, exonerate, acquit, exculpate, pass over, disregard, wink at, ignore, be blind to, look the other way, pay no attention or heed (to), find or prove innocent (of): Please excuse my tardiness. 2 release, let go or off, liberate, free, relieve, exempt, absolve; dismiss, Colloq let off the hook: She was excused from attending class today. You may be excused. 3 condone, allow, permit, defend, apologize for, justify, warrant, explain, vindicate, rationalize, mitigate, extenuate, palliate: Poverty does not excuse your stealing. --n. 4 apology, explanation, story, reason, justification, defence, plea, vindication, condonation, rationalization, extenuation, mitigation, palliation; basis, grounds, foundation, cause: Can you think of any excuse for your behaviour? 5 forgiveness, remission, pardon, indulgence, reprieve, clearing, exculpation, absolution, exoneration, acquittal, disregard, heedlessness, vindication, clearance, acquittance: Ignorance of the law is not an excuse. 6 evasion, subterfuge, pretence, pretext, makeshift, escape, loophole, way out, Colloq alibi, stall, Slang cop-out: He always uses his grandmother's illness as an excuse for missing school.
EXEMPT|17|v. 1 Often, exempt from. free or liberate or release from, excuse or relieve from, spare from, let off, absolve, except, Colloq let off the hook: The doctor exempted Becker from strenuous activity. --adj. 2 exempted, free, liberated, released, excused, relieved, spared, let off, excepted, immune, Colloq off the hook: It seems that Becker is now exempt from doing any work.
EXHALE|16|v. breathe (out), blow, puff, huff, gasp, evaporate, pass off, discharge, emit, emanate, issue (forth), respire, suspire, give forth, blow off, eject, expel, exsufflate: Please exhale into this balloon. The volcano continued to exhale noxious fumes.
EXOTIC|15|adj. 1 foreign, alien, non-native, imported: She raises exotic plants. 2 strange, unfamiliar, unusual, bizarre, odd, peculiar, unique, singular, extraordinary, remarkable, out of the ordinary, different, outlandish, weird, crazy: His exotic clothes make him stand out in a crowd. 3 striptease, belly, go-go, topless, bottomless, nude: Her daughter is an exotic dancer at the new disco.
EXPAND|16|v. 1 enlarge, spread (out), extend, increase, open (out or up), swell, inflate, distend; unfold: His waistline began to expand as he approached middle age. 2 prolong, lengthen, stretch, dilate: An elastic valve expands easily. 3 increase, extend, amplify, magnify, broaden, widen, augment, heighten, develop: The minister sought to expand his influence. 4 Often, expand on. detail, enlarge on, embellish, develop, amplify, expatiate on or upon, elaborate (on); flesh out: The speaker expanded on the topic of health insurance.
EXPECT|17|v. 1 anticipate, look forward or ahead to, have or keep in view, await, envisage, watch or look for, wait for, contemplate, foresee, US envision: She expects to leave. He was expecting her at noon. 2 assume, presume, suppose, imagine, believe, think,trust, surmise, conjecture; foresee, US and Canadian guess: I expect you will be hungry when you return. 3 look for, want, require, wish, need, demand, reckon on or upon, hope for, calculate or count on or upon: What did you expect me to do?
EXPEND|16|v. 1 pay out, spend, disburse, use, employ, Slang lay or dish out, fork or shell out: Reduce the money expended on entertainment. 2 use up, consume, exhaust, deplete, finish (off), dissipate, sap, drain: I expended all my energies eking out a bare living.
EXPERT|15|n. 1 authority, professional, specialist, scholar, master, connoisseur, pundit, Colloq wizard, whiz, pro, ace, Brit dab hand, boffin, Slang US maven or mavin: We rely on experts to verify the age of works of art. --adj. 2 skilful, skilled, trained, knowledgeable, learned, experienced, practised, qualified, adept, proficient, accomplished, au fait, adroit, dexterous, polished, finished, masterful, masterly, first-rate, excellent, superb, wonderful, superior, champion(ship), A-one, A-1, virtuoso, Colloq top-notch, Brit whizzo, wizard, US crackerjack, crack: Davis is an expert snooker player.
EXPIRE|15|v. 1 cease, (come to an) end, close, finish, terminate, run out, conclude, discontinue: Your subscription expires with the next issue. 2 die, breathe one's last, decease, perish, pass away: His grandmother expired only last year, at the age of 110. 3 exhale, breathe out, expel: In the daytime we expire more carbon dioxide than during the night.
EXPOSE|15|v. 1 (lay) bare, reveal, uncover, show, exhibit, present, display, disclose; divulge, unveil, unmask, discover, air, ventilate, let out, leak, betray, bring to light, make known: He unbuttoned his shirt, exposing his hairy chest. The facts of the case will be exposed tomorrow. Will he expose the names of his accomplices? 2 risk, imperil, endanger, jeopardize, hazard: Do not expose your house to danger of flooding by building it so close to the river. 3 expose to. subject to, introduce to, acquaint with, bring into contact with: Today children are not taught, but 'exposed to education'.
EXTEND|14|v. 1 stretch or spread (out), outstretch, outspread, open (out), unroll, unfold; reach, range; carry on, draw out, continue, develop: The carpet extends from wall to wall. Her reputation extends worldwide. The city walls extended to the river. 2 lengthen, elongate, widen, continue; broaden, enlarge, add to, augment; increase, stretch (out), supplement: We are planning to extend the sitting-room. They asked the mortgage company to extend the repayment period. 3 last, stretch, continue, go or carry on; perpetuate, drag on or out, keep up or on, prolong: Their visit extended until the following week. 4 offer, proffer, give, present, hold out, stretch forth, tender; bestow; grant, impart, confer, accord, advance: She extended her hand. The store does not extend credit to any customers.
EXTENT|13|n. 1 magnitude, dimensions, compass, size, range, scale, sweep, scope, expanse, immensity, enormousness, capaciousness, spaciousness, space, amplitude: The extent of space is unimaginably vast. 2 limit, bounds, limitation, lengths; range, scope: To what extent will he go to see justice done? 3 area, region, tract, territory, compass: In the whole extent of Europe you could find no better mushroom.
EXTORT|13|v. exact, extract, blackmail, bully, coerce, force, wring, wrest, Colloq milk, bleed, put the arm on (someone): Threatening to swear that it was my fault, she extorted a promise from me to keep silent about the body.
FABRIC|13|n. 1 cloth, textile, material, stuff: The chair is upholstered in traditional floral fabric. 2 construction, constitution, core, heart, foundation, structure, framework, organization, configuration, make-up: Extensive strikes threatened the very fabric of our society.
FACING|8|n. faúade, front, cladding, surface, overlay, skin; coating: The houses all have a colourful stucco facing.
FACTOR|11|n. 1 constituent, ingredient, element, part, particular, piece, component; circumstance, consideration, aspect, fact, influence, determinant, cause: Which factors contributed to the decline of Mayan civilization? 2 agent, representative, proxy, middleman, intermediary, deputy, go-between: Our company has a factor handling all our exports. 3 banker, financier, backer, moneylender, lender: The factors lent us money to buy the stock needed to fill the orders.
FAIRLY|12|adv. 1 quite, rather, pretty, somewhat, tolerably, adequately, sufficiently, passably, moderately, Colloq sort of, kind of: I thought that the singing was fairly good. 2 equitably, impartially, justly, properly, honestly, objectively: Please make certain that everyone is treated fairly. 3 absolutely, totally, utterly, completely, positively, really, actually, veritably, virtually: The crowd fairly cheered themselves hoarse.
FAMILY|14|n. 1 (kith and) kin, kinsmen, kindred, kinsfolk or US and Canadian kinfolk, next of kin, relatives, relations, household, people, one's own flesh and blood, one's nearest and dearest, m÷nage, Colloq folks: We usually spend the holidays with my family. 2 children, offspring, progeny, issue, brood, Colloq kids: Large families were much more common in the 19th century. 3 ancestors, forebears, forefathers, progenitors; ancestry, parentage, descent, extraction, derivation, lineage, pedigree, genealogy, family tree, house, line, bloodline, dynasty; blood, stock, strain: He came from an old family of German bankers. 4 group, set, division, subdivision, classification, type, kind, class, genre, order, species, genus: English belongs to the Indo-European family of languages.
FAMINE|11|n. starvation; shortage, dearth, scarcity, deficiency, paucity, exiguity, barrenness, lack: In days of abundance, no one should die of famine.
FAMOUS|8|adj. renowned, celebrated, popular, famed, well-known, noted, eminent, pre-eminent, conspicuous, prominent, illustrious, notable, acclaimed, venerable, legendary, distinguished, praiseworthy, honoured, lionized: A famous architect has been invited to address the convention.
FARMER|11|n. husbandman, agriculturist, agronomist, yeoman, Brit smallholder, US dialect granger: The farmers here were hard hit by the drought.
FASTEN|9|v. 1 attach, tie, bind, bond, stick, affix, anchor, fix, lock, hook (up), secure, join, connect, link, fuse, cement, clamp: Fasten your seat belts. The mussels fasten themselves by their byssi to underwater piles. 2 fix, rivet, focus, concentrate, direct, aim, point: He fastened his gaze on Kitty. She fastened her attention on the ceiling.
FATHER|7|n. 1 sire, paterfamilias, Colloq dad, daddy, pa, papa, pop, old man, old boy, Brit governor, pater: His father is a chemist. 2 forebear, ancestor, forefather, progenitor, primogenitor: The father of the dynasty fought at Hastings. 3 creator, founder, originator, inventor, author, architect, framer, initiator: He regards Lavoisier as the father of modern chemistry. 4 priest, confessor, cur÷, abb÷, minister, pastor, shepherd, parson, clergyman, chaplain, Colloq padre, Military slang sky pilot: We should see the Father about the funeral service. --v. 5 sire, beget, get, engender, procreate, generate: He had fathered more than forty children in his harem. 6 originate, establish, found, invent, author, frame, initiate, institute, create: Galileo fathered modern astronomy by inventing the telescope.
FATHOM|9|v. probe, sound, plumb, penetrate, search (out), investigate, measure, gauge, determine, ascertain, work out, get to the bottom of, delve into, understand, grasp, divine: I never quite fathomed the purpose of this device.
FAULTY|12|adj. defective, unsound, imperfect, flawed, impaired, out of order, malfunctioning, broken, bad; damaged; Slang on the blink, Chiefly US on the fritz: The carburettor is faulty.
FAVOUR|12|n. 1 good will, approval, support, approbation: Father looked with favour on my marriage to Leslie. 2 courtesy, good or kind deed, good turn, kindness, gesture, beau geste; service: As a favour, I'll walk your dog while you're away. 3 favouritism, partiality, prejudice, bias, preference, patronage: They show favour in repeatedly giving the contract to the same company. 4 grace, esteem, consideration, view, regard, opinion, account, (good or bad) books; disposition, taste, predisposition: How does Rochester stand in the favour of the king? 5 in favour (of). for, pro, on the side of, in support (of), at the back of, backing, behind, on or US and Canadian in behalf (of), in back of: Please vote in favour of the resolution. Are you in favour or against? --v. 6 approve, prefer, like, have a liking or preference for, be partial to, advocate, espouse, back, endorse, support, champion, recommend, incline to or towards, side with, take the side or part of, go for, opt for, fancy, select, choose, elect, single out, sponsor, adopt, go in for: Which candidate do you favour? 7 pamper, coddle, baby, protect, indulge, be partial to: Notice how Billie favours his left leg when walking? 8 advance, forward, promote, facilitate, expedite, help, benefit, assist, aid, encourage, accommodate, smile upon: The warm, moist climate favours the growth of mould. 9 resemble, look like, take after: Little Jimmy favours his father, I think.
FEEBLE|4|adj. 1 weak, infirm, frail, puny, slight, feckless; debilitated, enervated, decrepit, enfeebled, exhausted, weakened; effete, delicate, fragile, powerless, impotent, impuissant, languid, spiritless, sickly, ailing, unsound, faint, dizzy; Colloq woozy, Brit wonky: The survivors were suffering from exposure and too feeble to walk. 2 flimsy, weak, ineffectual, ineffective, namby-pamby, half-baked, lame, unconvincing, shoddy, thin, insubstantial, poor, unsatisfactory, insufficient, inadequate, unavailing, meagre, paltry, insignificant, Colloq wishy-washy, Brit wet: She gave her usual feeble excuse for being late. 3 weak, obscure, dim, imperceptible, faint, distant, indistinct, unclear: He could see little in the feeble light from the one candle. We heard a feeble cry from under the rubble.
FEELER|7|n. 1 antenna, tentacle, palp, sensor: Those moths have long, feathery feelers. 2 overture, hint, suggestion, foretaste, probe, tester, sensor: The questionnaire is a feeler put out to test public opinion.
FELLOW|10|n. 1 man, boy, person, individual, gentleman, one, Colloq guy, chap, customer, kid, Brit bloke, Slang geezer, gink, US old-fashioned gazabo: There was a fellow here asking for you today. 2 colleague, associate, comrade, companion, ally, peer, compeer: He is going to meet some of his fellows at the club. 3 mate, match, counterpart, partner, complement, concomitant, accessory: I lost one glove last week and now have lost its fellow. 4 boyfriend, man, sweetheart, love, young man; lover, paramour, Formal suitor, Old-fashioned beau, Archaic swain, Slang guy: Bailey has been Sue's fellow for years. --adj. 5 associate(d), affiliate(d), allied, auxiliary, related: Ladies, not accorded membership in the men's club, belonged to a fellow organization. She shared her sandwiches with a fellow passenger.
FESTER|9|v. 1 ulcerate, suppurate, run, ooze, putrefy, putresce, necrose, mortify, rot, decay, decompose: His entire body was covered with festering sores. 2 rankle, smoulder, gall, chafe, inflame: Bitterness over the way he had been treated festered inside him for years.
FETISH|7|n. 1 charm, amulet, talisman, totem, Rare periapt: Round his neck he wore the dreaded fetish of the fish god. 2 obsession, compulsion, fixation, mania, id÷e fixe: It's a fetish of hers to kiss only under the mistletoe.
FIANCE|11|n. betrothed, wife- or bride- or husband-to-be, intended: He went out to buy a ring for his fianc÷e.
FIASCO|7|n. failure, disaster, muddle, mess, abortion, botch, Colloq fizzle, flop: My effort to help Donald with his maths homework was a complete fiasco.
FICKLE|7|adj. flighty, capricious, frivolous, unpredictable, moody, giddy, fanciful, whimsical, fitful, mercurial, volatile, unstable, changeable, mutable, inconstant, changeful, unsteady, unsteadfast, indecisive, undecided, vacillating or rarely vacillant, unsure, uncertain, irresolute, wavering, erratic, unreliable, undependable, irresponsible, untrustworthy, faithless, unfaithful, disloyal, Colloq wishy-washy: That fickle woman has already taken up with someone else. You should know how fickle the tastes of the public are.
FIDDLE|7|v. 1 Often, fiddle with. meddle (with), tamper (with), interfere (with), alter, falsify, fix; cheat, swindle, flimflam; Colloq finagle, Brit cook: The treasurer had been fiddling the accounts for years. 2 Often, fiddle with or about or around. toy or trifle or fidget (with), twiddle or play or tinker (with), fool or fuss (with), Colloq mess or muck (about or around) (with), frivol (away), monkey (around) (with): He sat there nervously fiddling with his ear. Stop fiddling about and get on with your work. --n. 3 Brit swindle, fraud, racket, thimblerig, US shell-game, Slang skin game, funny business, monkey business: The tax inspector caught him in some fiddle with his business expenses. 4 violin, viola, viol, cello, violoncello, kit: He played fiddle for the tsar.
FIDGET|11|v. 1 squirm, twitch, shuffle, wriggle, wiggle, fiddle, fuss; fret, chafe: Stop fidgeting and tell me the truth! --n. 2 fusspot, fuss-budget, cat on hot bricks, US cat on a hot tin roof, Colloq US nervous Nellie: If her conscience is clear, why is she such a fidget? 3 the fidgets. restlessness, fidgetiness, dither, uneasiness, the jitters, nervousness, itchiness, Colloq heebie-jeebies, jim-jams, ants in one's pants: Whenever he tells a lie he gets a bad case of the fidgets.
FIERCE|11|adj. 1 ferocious, savage, wild, truculent, brutish, feral, bestial, tigerish, brutal, cruel, fell, murderous, bloodthirsty, sanguinary, homicidal, barbaric, barbarous, inhuman, dangerous: The fierce beasts will tear you limb from limb. 2 intractable, angry, furious, hostile, aggressive, vehement, frenzied, stormy, violent, turbulent, wild, tempestuous, tumultuous, raging, merciless, uncontrollable: The old curmudgeon is in a fierce mood again today. A fierce storm raged for three days. 3 severe, awful, dreadful, intense, keen, dire, bitter, biting, racking: Wear warm clothes to protect you from the fierce cold.
FIGURE|10|n. 1 physique, build, shape, form, configuration, conformation, build, body, outline, silhouette; cut, cast; Slang bod, chassis: It's exercise that gives Kathy such a fine figure. 2 appearance, image, likeness, representation, semblance: The vision came to him in the figure of a dragon. 3 person, individual, human (being): A burly figure loomed up out of the fog. 4 statue, effigy, sculpture, bust, mould, cast, image, representation, idol, icon: Hundreds of figures are carved into the stone of the temple faúade. 5 picture, illustration, diagram, drawing, sketch, plate: See Figure 12 for a graph showing the rate of inflation for the past decade. 6 personality, celebrity, somebody, leader, personage, worthy, notable, individual, presence, force, character: Chaplin looms large as a figure in the history of comedy. 7 number, numeral, cipher, digit; character, symbol, device, sign; design, pattern, motif, emblem: His salary is in six figures. --v. 8 Often, figure up. calculate, compute, reckon, work out; count, enumerate, numerate, total, tot up, tally, sum: Please figure up how much I owe you. 9 picture, imagine, think, take, reckon, consider, calculate, judge, believe; assume, presume, suppose; accept, acknowledge, concede: I never figured her to be the guilty one. 10 act, participate, take or play a part or role, appear, feature, have a place; be included or mentioned, be featured or conspicuous: He does not figure in my plans. 11 figure on or upon. a rely or depend on or upon, count on or upon, trust in, put faith in: You mustn't figure on his help. b plan on or upon, take into consideration or account, consider, make allowance for: They were figuring on consumer demand for a better mousetrap. 12 figure out. a calculate, reckon, compute, work out: I haven't yet figured out last year's profits and losses. b decipher, translate, understand, interpret, solve, grasp, get, fathom, see, perceive, Colloq dig, make head(s) or tail(s) of, get through one's head, get the hang ...
FILTHY|10|adj. 1 defiled, polluted, tainted, foul, nasty, dirty, unclean, vile, putrid, rotten, fetid or foetid, maggoty, fly-blown, purulent, feculent, faecal, scummy, slimy, mucky, Slang cruddy, Brit gungy, US grungy: That city's public lavatories are the filthiest I have ever seen. 2 dirty, unwashed, begrimed, squalid, sordid, shabby, soiled, low, stained, grimy, bedraggled, unkempt, slovenly, sloppy, mean, scurvy, disgusting, miserable, wretched, Slang Brit gungy, US grungy: The filthy beggar turned out to be Holmes in disguise. 3 immoral, taboo or tabu, indecent, impure, obscene, smutty, pornographic, X-rated, depraved, corrupt, dirty, lewd, lascivious, licentious, gross, offensive, coarse, bawdy, ribald, blue, suggestive, foul-mouthed, dirty-minded, filthy-minded: Customs officers confiscated thousands of filthy books, magazines, films, and videos.
FINERY|12|n. decoration(s), ornaments, trappings, trinkets, frippery, showy dress, Colloq best bib and tucker, Sunday best, Sunday clothes, gear, glad rags: They were all dressed in their finery at the reception.
FINGER|6|n. 1 digit: How many fingers am I holding up? 2 have a finger in. be or become or get involved in, figure in, have a hand in, influence, interfere in, tamper or meddle or tinker or monkey with: I knew that Lightfoot must have had a finger in the deal. 3 keep one's fingers crossed. hope or pray for the best, touch or esp. US knock wood: I'm sure you'll win, but I'll keep my fingers crossed just the same. 4 lay or put a finger on. (so much as) touch, strike, hit, punch: If you lay a finger on her, you'll have to answer to me! 5 lay or put one's finger on. a recall, remember, recollect, bring or call to mind, think of, pin down: I can't quite put my finger on the date when we met. b locate, find, discover, unearth, lay or put one's hands on, track down, get hold of, come by, acquire; buy, purchase: I was finally able to put my finger on the book you asked for. c indicate, identify, point to, pin down, Colloq zero (in) on: Frank put his finger on the problem at once. 6 (not) lift or raise (even) a (little) finger. make an attempt or effort, offer, make a move, contribute, do one's part, do anything or something: She didn't so much as lift a finger when I needed her. 7 pull or get one's finger out. get on with it, stop delaying or procrastinating, Colloq get cracking: He should have finished by now, and I wish he'd pull his finger out. 8 put the finger on. accuse, inform on or against, tell or tattle on, betray, bear witness, Slang snitch or squeal on, peach on: After Louise put the finger on the kingpin, the cops arrested him. 9 slip through one's fingers. elude, escape, get away, vanish, disappear: Despite the cordon round the house, the fugitive slipped through our fingers. 10 twist or wrap around one's little finger. control, dominate, lord it over, have under control, manipulate, manoeuvre, wield power or authority over, have under one's thumb, have the upper hand over, be master of, influence, make subservient: She has her father twisted around her little finger, a...
FINISH|7|v. 1 stop, conclude, end, cease: When you have finished eating, please clear the table. 2 complete, accomplish, perfect, achieve, carry out, fulfil, consummate, clinch, write 'finis' to, Colloq wrap up: We finished the work on time. 3 Sometimes, finish off. dispose of, dispatch or despatch, exhaust, consume, eat or drink (up), use (up), devour, drain, Colloq polish off: We finished the last of the beer last night. 4 Sometimes, finish off. kill, exterminate, annihilate, destroy, get rid of, dispose of, dispatch or despatch, put an end to, administer or deliver or give the coup de grçce, bring down, overcome, beat, defeat, conquer, best, worst, Colloq polish off, terminate, Slang bump off, rub out, US waste, ice: The cavalry finished off the last of the enemy. The contender was finished in the third round. 5 Sometimes, finish up. conclude, close, terminate, wind up, end, culminate: He goes straight home when he finishes work. When will you finish? 6 Sometimes, finish up. end up, settle: Where did you finish up after the party? 7 Sometimes, finish off. perfect, put the final touches on, polish, put a finish on: He finishes fine furniture for a living. 8 finish with. release, let go, have or be done with, let loose, set free: I'll finish with you later, young man! --n. 9 conclusion, termination, end, close, closing, completion, culmination, ending, finale, Colloq winding up, US wind-up: Tomorrow is the finish of the hunting season. 10 death, killing, annihilation, extermination, downfall, destruction, defeat: A major catastrophe spelt the finish of the dinosaurs. 11 polish, surface, texture: Just feel the finish on this gunstock!
FINITE|9|adj. limited, bounded, bound, restricted, delimited, numerable, countable: It has been shown that there are a finite number of grains of sand in the universe.
FIRMLY|14|adv. 1 solidly, strongly, securely, tightly, rigidly, fast, immovably: The column is set firmly into the concrete. 2 resolutely, steadfastly, determinedly, staunchly, unwaveringly, decisively, unhesitatingly, constantly: Jacquelyn firmly supports John in anything he says.
FISCAL|7|adj. financial, economic, budgetary, pecuniary, monetary: It is against our fiscal policy to deal in off-shore securities.
FITFUL|12|adj. irregular, sporadic, intermittent, occasional, periodic, erratic, spasmodic, haphazard, unsystematic, changeable, unstable, capricious, varying, fluctuating, variable, uneven: The dying torch emitted a fitful light. No true patriot pays merely fitful allegiance to his country.
FITTED|8|adj. custom-made, tailor-made; tailored, bespoke: The house boasts a fully fitted kitchen.
FIZZLE|7|v. 1 fizz: This headache powder makes the water fizzle. 2 Often, fizzle out. die (out or away), fizz out, expire, peter out, come to nothing or naught, fail, fall through, miscarry, abort, come to grief, misfire, collapse, cave in: Her grandiose plans for staging an extravaganza quickly fizzled out.
FLABBY|10|adj. 1 limp, loose, lax, flaccid, slack, floppy, sagging, drooping, baggy, pendulous, quaggy, soft: After forty, he began to get a bit flabby around the middle. 2 weak, spineless, feeble, impotent, ineffective, ineffectual: The critics found the characterizations flabby and the plot non-existent.
FLASHY|10|adj. 1 flash, gaudy, flamboyant, glaring, fulgurous, showy, ostentatious, loud, garish, vulgar, cheap, meretricious, pretentious, tawdry, tasteless, Colloq tacky, Slang jazzy, US glitzy: He was attracted by her flashy appearance. 2 superficial, cosmetic, skin-deep, surface, shallow, glib, slick, facile, insubstantial, thin: The reviewer called it a flashy interpretation of the Bard.
FLAUNT|9|v. display, show (off), parade, flourish, exhibit, sport, disport, spotlight: They were like all the other nouveaux riches who flaunt their wealth in the stylish continental resorts.
FLAWED|13|adj. damaged, harmed, marred, weakened, tainted, stained, tarnished, defective, imperfect, unsound, faulty: His flawed record prevented him from getting work.
FLEECE|9|v. cheat, overcharge, swindle, bilk, defraud, victimize, plunder, strip, milk, rob, Colloq take, flimflam, gyp, diddle, bleed, take for a ride or to the cleaners, Slang rip off, chisel, pluck, rook, clip, soak: The gang stole credit cards and fleeced the companies out of millions.
FLIGHT|6|n. 1 flying, soaring, winging, excursion: The flight above the mountains was exhilarating. He is subject to wild flights of the imagination. 2 (air) voyage or journey or trip: We had a fine flight from New Delhi. 3 aeroplane, airliner, plane, aircraft: Our flight was delayed in Istanbul. 4 flock, swarm, cloud, covey (of grouse or partridge), bevy (of quail), skein (of geese), exaltation (of larks): A flight of migrating birds passed overhead. 5 feather: The flights on this dart are broken.
FLIMSY|14|adj. 1 slight, frail, weak, insubstantial or unsubstantial, feeble, makeshift, fragile, frangible, breakable, rickety, ramshackle, dilapidated, jerry-built, gimcrack, slight, delicate: That flimsy ladder will never support me. He lives in a flimsy shack near the railway. 2 slight, trivial, paltry, feeble, unconvincing, weak, makeshift, implausible, unbelievable, unsatisfactory, insubstantial or unsubstantial, poor, inadequate: Her flimsy excuse was that she had a headache. 3 sheer, light, gauzy, transparent, thin, filmy, diaphanous, gossamer, delicate: She was wearing a flimsy pink blouse.
FLINCH|7|v. wince, draw back, withdraw, cower, cringe, recoil, start, quail, blench, shrink (from), shy (away) (from), dodge, duck: Each time he raised the whip, I flinched.
FLOWER|12|n. 1 blossom, bloom, floret or floweret, bud, Technical efflorescence: He brought me flowers for my birthday. 2 cream, best, pick, ÷lite, crëme de la crëme, finest, choicest: The flower of the city's youth were put to death by the wicked caliph. --v. 3 blossom, bloom, bud, burgeon or bourgeon, come out, open, unfold, Technical effloresce: The century plant was so called because it was thought to flower only once every hundred years.
FLUENT|9|adj. articulate, eloquent, well-spoken, felicitous, graceful, facile, easy, natural, effortless, ready, smooth, polished, flowing, voluble, glib, slick; expressive: She is a fluent speaker of Spanish.
FLUFFY|10|adj. 1 soft, downy, puffy, whipped up, light, airy, puffy, feathery, wispy: Beat the egg whites till they are fluffy. 2 frivolous, superficial, trivial, unimportant, airy, thin, lightweight, light, insubstantial, gossamer, Brit airy-fairy: Mr Piffle is too fluffy-headed to offer anything useful.
FLURRY|10|n. 1 activity, commotion, ado, to-do, fuss, upset, hubbub, pother, stir, excitement, disturbance, agitation, tumult, whirl, furore, bustle, hurry, hustle, flutter, fluster; burst, outburst; Colloq tizzy: I was happy to leave the worry and flurry of the city. There was a brief flurry of activity at the Stock Exchange today. --v. 2 confuse, bewilder, agitate, put out, disturb, excite, fluster, disconcert, upset, perturb, unsettle, shake (up), Colloq rattle: He was quite flurried by the arrival of the police.
FOIBLE|6|n. weakness, imperfection, weak point, fault, frailty, shortcoming, flaw, defect, failing, blemish, infirmity; peculiarity, idiosyncrasy, quirk, crotchet, eccentricity, preoccupation, kink, Colloq hang-up, bug: One of her foibles is that she loves junk food.
FOLLOW|10|v. 1 go or come after or next; go or walk or tread or move behind, bring up the rear, Colloq string or tag along: You go on ahead and I'll follow shortly. Please see the comments that follow. 2 adhere to, cleave to, support, believe in, accept, adopt, conform to, comply with, obey, be guided by, be modelled after or on, observe, heed, mind, go along with, reflect, mirror, echo, imitate, copy, mimic, ape: This newspaper follows strict party policy. 3 attend, accompany, escort, go (along) with; serve: Mary's little lamb followed her everywhere. 4 chase, pursue, dog, hunt (down), stalk, run down, track, trail, tail, trace, shadow: The detective swore to follow him to the ends of the earth. 5 succeed, supersede, step into the shoes of, take the place of, replace, supplant: Who followed Henry VIII on the throne? 6 practise, pursue, engage in, carry on, occupy oneself with, apply or dedicate or devote oneself to, cultivate: After the war he followed a career as a teacher. 7 result from, ensue, issue, flow, arise, develop: The conclusion follows logically from the premise. 8 understand, fathom, comprehend, get, grasp, see, catch, appreciate, take in, keep up with, Colloq dig: Were you able to follow everything in that lecture? 9 watch, be a fan or aficionado of, pursue, take an interest in, keep up with, keep abreast of, cheer or root for, admire: He follows international yacht racing. 10 follow through (on). persist or persevere, continue, perform, conclude, realize, consummate, pursue, carry out, see through, make good, discharge, adhere to, keep: I only hope she follows this through and delivers the goods. 11 follow up (on). a pursue, go after, track, investigate, pursue, check (out), check up (on), inquire, make inquiries, look into: MacGregor is very good at following up on the most obscure references. b pursue, prosecute, reinforce, consolidate, support, buttress, augment, bolster, ensure: The Romans followed up their success with an attack on Olbia.
FOMENT|11|v. rouse, stir or whip up, awaken, waken, provoke, incite, instigate, initiate, prompt, start, motivate, inspire, work up, inflame, fan the flames (of), kindle, galvanize, rally, excite, stimulate, encourage, promote, foster, forward, further, advance, cultivate, sow the seeds of, spur, goad, egg on, urge: He is always fomenting ill will against the management.
FONDLE|10|v. caress, stroke, pet, pat, touch, cuddle, snuggle; handle, touch: See that couple over there fondling one another? He fondled his dagger.
FONDLY|13|adv. affectionately, lovingly, tenderly, warmly, adoringly, caressingly: Martin regarded his wife fondly.
FORBID|12|v. prohibit, ban, hinder, stop, exclude, debar, preclude, prevent; outlaw, interdict, disallow, proscribe, taboo; veto: I was forbidden from entering. They forbid smoking in the classrooms.
FORCED|12|adj. artificial, unnatural, contrived, stilted, calculated, studied, laboured, strained, stiff, false, feigned, fake(d), mannered, affected, self-conscious, Colloq phoney or US also phony: Her forced joviality failed to conceal her contempt for those present.
FORGET|10|v. 1 fail or cease to remember or recall or think of, lose, draw a blank: I forgot what I was supposed to buy at the market. 2 leave (behind), omit or neglect (doing or taking): I forgot my umbrella this morning. 3 ignore, dismiss from (one's) mind or thoughts, disregard, overlook, consign to oblivion: Forget the fact that you ever met me.
FORMAL|11|adj. 1 standard, conventional, customary, established, prescribed, regular, normal, correct, proper; strict, formulaic, inflexible, punctilious, exacting, unchanging, methodical, orderly, systematic, set, pro forma, ritual, ritualistic, ceremonial, proper, official, routine, fixed, rigid, stiff, stilted, stately, starched, unbending, solemn; confining, straitened, limited; Colloq straight, square: Formal rules of behaviour are observed. 2 explicit, express, definite, spelled out, formalized, express, authorized, official, solemn, legal, lawful: Formal demands have been made for the withdrawal of our ambassador. 3 prim, ceremonious, dignified, stuffy, strait-laced, stiff, precise, exact: He made a formal bow and left our company.
FORMAT|11|n. 1 appearance, look(s), aspect, layout, plan, design, style, form, dimension(s), shape, size: In its present format, the magazine resembles an academic journal. 2 composition, content(s), make-up, constitution, arrangement, plan, organization, order, set-up: Her TV programme has the format of a chat show.
FORMER|11|adj. 1 previous, earlier, prior, ex-, one-time, preceding, erstwhile, late, latest, last, recent, ci-devant, quondam, Archaic whilom: I ran into a former girl-friend at the art show. 2 old, past, bygone; ancient, (pre)historic, departed, antediluvian: In former times, one could demand - and get - decent service.
FOSTER|9|v. 1 promote, encourage, stimulate, further, forward, advance, cultivate, nurture, nourish, support, back, assist, help, aid, succour, patronize: Cutting back these offshoots fosters growth of the main stem. Representatives have fostered acceptance of our products throughout Europe. 2 bring up, rear, raise, take care of, maintain, care for: The Cartwrights have fostered eight orphans in their home.
FRACAS|11|n. 1 trouble, disturbance, commotion, rumpus, fuss, hubbub, pandemonium, hullabaloo, uproar, disorder, scramble, scuffle, brawl, rough-house, rough-and-tumble, turmoil, tumult, free-for-all, riot, fray, brouhaha, mél÷e or melee, Law affray; Brit scrum, US brannigan; Colloq ruckus, punch-up, Slang Brit bovver: It was football hooligans who caused the fracas after the game. 2 argument, disagreement, quarrel, dispute, discord, wrangle, altercation, squabble, spat, tiff, fight, row, tussle, Donnybrook, brawl, Colloq barney, scrap: After the referee's ruling, a fracas broke out.
FREELY|10|adv. 1 candidly, frankly, openly, unreservedly, without reserve, unrestrainedly, without restraint, unconstrainedly, without constraint, unceremoniously, plainly: Please speak freely. 2 willingly, spontaneously, readily, voluntarily, on (one's) own, independently, of (one's) own accord, of (one's) own volition or free will: I didn't send for her - she came to me freely. 3 unrestrainedly, unrestrictedly, without restriction, without let or hindrance, without interference: He was allowed to move freely about the island. 4 liberally, lavishly, unreservedly, generously, unstintingly, open-handedly, ungrudgingly, munificently, amply, plentifully, abundantly: He has no money to donate but he gives freely of his time. 5 readily, easily, smoothly, cleanly, unobstructedly: With the obstacle removed, the water ran freely through the pipes.
FREEZE|16|v. 1 chill, refrigerate, ice, deep-freeze, flash-freeze, frost: If you freeze the leftovers, they keep better. 2 solidify, congeal, harden, stiffen, ice up or over: When the lake freezes, we can go skating. 3 fix, immobilize, paralyse, stop (dead or dead in one's tracks), stay, pin, transfix, Gorgonize; become fixed, stand (stock-)still or motionless; peg, stick, set: She froze him with an icy stare. He froze to the spot in horror. Rates of exchange are no longer frozen. 4 freeze out. exclude, debar, ban, reject, ostracize; eject, drive away or out, expel, force out: When he tried to join the club, he was frozen out. --n. 5 frost, Brit freeze-up, US ice-up, deep-freeze: There will be a freeze tonight in northern counties. 6 fix, immobilization: The government has put a freeze on wages.
FRENZY|21|n. 1 excitement, agitation, fury, fever, Brit furore or US furor, passion, turmoil, transport: The crowd was whipped into a frenzy at the match. 2 distraction, paroxysm, seizure, outburst, bout, fit: She went into a frenzy of despair after the death of her family.
FRIEND|10|n. 1 (boon) companion, partner, comrade, crony, familiar, confidant(e), intimate, Achates, alter ego, ally, compeer; acquaintance, playmate, pen-pal or Brit also pen-friend; Colloq chum, pal, Brit cocker, Chiefly Brit and Australian and New Zealand mate, Australian cobber, US and Canadian (bosom) buddy, SW US compadre; Slang Brit (old) china: She is spending the weekend with some friends. 2 ally, associate, fellow, confederate, colleague, co-worker, confrëre, compatriot, consociate, US cohort: A friend from the office is coming to dinner. 3 room-mate, bunk-mate, flatmate, soul mate, bedfellow, lover, sweetheart, escort; girl, woman, girlfriend, concubine, mistress, Old-fashioned doxy; man, boyfriend, Old-fashioned beau; Colloq US alternative other, POSSLQ (= 'Person of the Opposite Sex Sharing Living Quarters'), roomie; Slang baby, moll, sugar-daddy, US squeeze, twist, Chiefly Brit bird: Chris, why don't you introduce us to your new friend? 4 benefactor, patron, supporter, advocate, adherent, backer, financier, Maecenas; angel, investor: He has long been associated with the Friends of the Library.
FRIGHT|6|n. 1 fear, alarm, terror, dread, horror, panic, trepidation, dismay, consternation, apprehension, Colloq (blue) funk: He almost dies of fright at the sight of blood. 2 scare, shock: Here, sip this brandy; you've had a terrible fright. 3 spectre, monster, eyesore, Colloq sight, mess: He looked a perfect fright when I saw him after the accident.
FRIGID|11|adj. 1 cold, arctic, frosty, frozen, glacial, icy, hyperboreal, polar, bone-chilling, boreal, Siberian, freezing, wintry, chilly, chill, Archaic frore: We were huddled in that frigid alpine hut for two days. 2 cold, cool, cold-hearted, forbidding, austere, unemotional, unfeeling, stiff, rigid, prim, strait-laced, stony, callous, steely, obdurate, thick-skinned, impervious, inaccessible, remote, unapproachable, unfriendly, standoffish, haughty, aloof, reserved: His behaviour to his ex-wife has always been frigid. 3 unapproachable, unresponsive, impassive, passive, indifferent, cold; impotent: She says he's impotent and he insists that she's frigid.
FRINGE|6|n. 1 trimming, edge, edging, border, frill, flounce, ruffle, purfle, purfling, ruff, ruche or rouche, ricrac or rickrack, ornament, decoration, furbelow: The curtains would look better without that pink fringe. 2 border, perimeter, edge, boundary, bounds, periphery, limits, margin, outskirts, march(es); Technical fimbria: We live on the fringes of Oxford. --v. 3 edge, border, trim, surround: The grounds are fringed with trees.
FRISKY|16|adj. lively, frolicsome, rollicking, playful, active, animated, (high-)spirited, coltish: Tell Frances to calm down - she's getting a bit too frisky.
FROLIC|11|n. 1 merriment, merrymaking, gaiety, sport, fun (and games), high jinks, jollity, mirth, jollification, festivity, celebration, revelry, play, horseplay, Colloq skylarking, partying: After we won the cup there was great frolic in the town. 2 romp, party, spree, revel, gambol, caper, gambado, antic; escapade, prank: The noise of our frolics echoed across the square. --v. 3 frisk, cavort, caper, skylark, gambol, rollick, romp, cut capers, curvet, play, skip, sport, have fun, Colloq party, make whoopee, horse around or about: Gregory frolics about instead of getting on with his work.
FRUGAL|10|adj. 1 thrifty, sparing, economic(al), careful, prudent, provident, saving, conservative, conservational, moderate: Mother had to become quite frugal when father fell ill. 2 parsimonious, penurious, penny-pinching, cheese-paring, mean, miserly, stingy, niggardly, tight(-fisted), close(-fisted), hand to mouth: He led a frugal existence on his earnings as an artist. 3 meagre, paltry, poor, skimpy, scant(y), small, negligible, piddling: His frugal meal consisted entirely of bread and water.
FULFIL|12|v. 1 bring about, achieve, accomplish, bring or carry to completion, carry out, complete, consummate, discharge, live up to, abide by, observe, realize, effect, bring or carry off, carry through, keep, satisfy, do, perform, execute, effectuate, achieve: I trust that you will fulfil all your obligations. Will she ever fulfil her ambition to be a virtuoso pianist? 2 answer, satisfy, meet, implement, look or see to, conform to or with, comply with, obey: This hammer will fulfil my needs for the moment. Will your new assistant be able to fulfil your requirements?
FUMBLE|8|v. 1 grope, feel, stumble: She fumbled about for the light switch. 2 mishandle, drop, muff, bungle, botch, Colloq US bobble, flub: Bosworth fumbled the ball and Fernpath scored again.
FURORE|9|n. 1 US furor, uproar, outburst, tumult, commotion, turmoil, brouhaha, ado, hurly-burly, to-do, hubbub, stir, fuss, disturbance, excitement: The deportation of the student caused a furore among his supporters. 2 rage, craze, mania, vogue, enthusiasm, obsession, fad: The furore for antiques has driven up prices enormously.
FURROW|10|n. 1 groove, channel, rut, trench, track, ditch, gutter, trough, fosse, fissure, sulcus, sulcation, flute, score, cut, gash, scratch, line; wrinkle, crease, corrugation, crow's-feet, Technical sulcus: He can't even plough a straight furrow. The furrows in his brow come from worry. --v. 2 groove, channel, flute, score, cut, gash, scratch; plough, harrow: This rock was furrowed by glacial action. 3 wrinkle, crease, corrugate, knit, pucker, crinkle: A frown furrowed his forehead.
FUTILE|9|adj. unsuccessful, unavailing, useless, unprofitable, vain, abortive, profitless, bootless, worthless, empty, sterile, barren, unproductive, impotent, ineffective, ineffectual; Chiefly literary sleeveless: After several futile attempts to get in touch with you, I gave up.
FUTURE|9|n. 1 days or time to come; tomorrow: Who knows what the future may bring? --adj. 2 coming, tomorrow's, later, prospective, following, unborn, subsequent, expected, approaching; to be to come: Future generations will appreciate what we have done here.
GADGET|9|n. contrivance, device, appliance, creation, invention, machine, tool, utensil, implement, instrument, mechanism, apparatus, Colloq contraption, widget, thingumabob or thingamabob or thingumbob, thingumajig or thingamajig or thingummy, whatchamacallit, what's-its-name, Brit doodah, US hickey, doodad, doohickey, whosis, whatsis, dingus, Chiefly US and Canadian gismo or gizmo: He invented a gadget for resealing fizzy drink bottles.
GAIETY|10|n. 1 cheerfulness, exhilaration, elation, glee, joie de vivre, buoyancy, light-heartedness, blitheness, happiness, felicity, pleasure, delight, joy, joyfulness, joyousness, exultation, merriment, mirth, mirthfulness, jubilation, good or high spirits, sprightliness, liveliness, joviality, jollity, hilarity: The gaiety of the celebration was becoming infectious. 2 Often, gaieties. merrymaking, festivity, festivities, celebration, revelry, revels, rejoicing, conviviality, Old-fashioned Brit mafficking: We all joined in the gaiety of Mardi Gras. 3 colourfulness, brightness, gaudiness, garishness, brilliance, brightness, cheeriness: The gaiety of her costume was offset by her lugubrious expression.
GAMBLE|6|v. 1 risk, venture, hazard, bet, wager, stake, chance, speculate; play, game, Brit punt: I wouldn't gamble that he'll be on time. I go to Monte Carlo to gamble. 2 gamble on. back, bet or wager on, stake or put money on, take a chance or flier on, try one's luck or fortune on, lay or place or make a wager or bet on; count on, rely on: We gambled on the horse to win. I was gambling on his having forgotten the debt. --n. 3 chance, risk, venture; uncertainty, speculation, Colloq US crap-shoot: I had to take the gamble that the rope would hold. All of life is just a gamble. 4 bet, wager, stake, Brit punt: She took a gamble on number 14.
GARISH|5|adj. gaudy, flashy, glaring, cheap, tawdry, florid, raffish, vulgar, harsh, loud, meretricious, Brummagem, showy, crude, tasteless, Colloq flash, Slang US glitzy: Their flat is filled with the most garish decorations.
GARNER|7|v. gather, collect, accumulate, assemble, amass, store (up), stock (up), husband, lay in or up or down or by, heap or pile up, put away or by, stow (away), cache, store, save, reserve: He garnered what he could from the family estate.
GENIAL|7|adj. affable, amiable, cordial, warm, friendly, congenial, agreeable, good-natured, good-humoured, well-disposed, neighbourly, sociable, kindly, kind, hospitable, easygoing, relaxed, pleasant, nice, cheerful, cheery, convivial: And here is your genial host, Sonny Gegenschein!
GENIUS|7|n. 1 mastermind, master, virtuoso, intellect; maestro, expert, adept; Colloq brain, Einstein: At the age of nine, this genius entered university. 2 intelligence, brilliance, wit, ingenuity, brains, ability, aptitude: She is a woman of incredible genius. 3 talent, gift, knack, faculty, flair, aptitude, forte, capacity, ability, capability: He has a genius for saying the wrong thing.
GENTLE|7|adj. 1 kind, kindly, mild, tender, benign, moderate, easy, quiet, calm, still, temperate, unruffled, untroubled, undisturbed, tranquil, restful, peaceful, pacific, placid, smooth, lenient, patient, indulgent, soothing, thoughtful, gracious, compassionate, humane, tender-hearted, merciful; soft, light, balmy: Amy is very gentle with the patients. A gentle breeze barely stirred the leaves. The gentle waves belied the terror that lurked below. 2 tame, tractable, docile, manageable, controllable; broken: As he's a beginner, he's been given a gentle mare to ride. 3 gradual, easy, moderate: The car rolled down the gentle slope and stopped.
GENTRY|10|n. ladies and gentlemen, upper classes, ëlite, aristocracy, landed gentry, gentlefolk, upper class(es) or strata, cream, crëme de la crëme; landowners, Brit squirearchy, Colloq upper crust or strata: He thinks he is privileged because he belongs to the gentry.
GEWGAW|14|n. trinket, bauble, gimcrack, trifle, knick-knack, bagatelle, kickshaw, toy, novelty, bijou, vanity; bric-å-brac or bric-a-brac: She has a huge collection of worthless gewgaws.
GIFTED|11|adj. talented, able, skilled, capable, skilful, outstanding, excellent, superior, superb, brilliant, expert, master, masterful, masterly, virtuoso, first-class, first-rate, top-drawer, top-flight, good, Colloq top-notch, ace, crackerjack, crack: Grants are available for gifted, indigent artists.
GIGGLE|5|v. 1 titter, snicker, snigger, chuckle, laugh, chortle, cackle, twitter: Stop that giggling at the rear of the classroom! --n. 2 titter, snicker, snigger, chuckle, laugh, chortle, cackle, twitter: Did I hear a giggle? 3 joke, prank, laugh: Just for a giggle, we tied his shoelaces together.
GLADLY|11|adv. cheerfully, happily, readily, willingly, with pleasure: I'd go with you gladly if I had the time.
GLANCE|9|v. 1 glimpse, peek, peep, scan, look, Colloq Brit have a shufti or shufty at, take a dekko at: I've only had time to glance at the report. 2 reflect, glint, glisten, shimmer, twinkle, gleam, shimmer, flicker, glimmer, sparkle, scintillate, glitter, flash: A ray of sunlight glanced off the windows opposite. 3 bounce (off), reflect, ricochet, rebound, carom: The stone glanced off the pavement and struck my leg. --n. 4 glimpse, peek, peep, look, coup d'oeil, Colloq gander, Brit shufti or shufty, dekko: She turned and gave him a questioning glance, As he fingered the tip of his fer-de-lance. 5 gleam, glint, glimmer, shimmer, twinkle, sparkle, scintillation, glitter, flicker, flash: The silver light, with quivering glance, Played on the water's still expanse.
GLASSY|8|adj. 1 shining, shiny, gleaming, smooth, slippery, slick, glossy, icy, mirror-like, US slick: We skidded on the glassy surface and crashed into a wall. 2 fixed, staring, trancelike, hypnotic, vacant, empty, expressionless, blank, void, vacuous, dazed, dull, glazed, cold, lifeless: His glassy stare made me very uncomfortable.
GLOBAL|9|adj. worldwide, international, broad, extensive, wide-ranging, far-reaching, epidemic, pandemic, universal: Protection of the atmosphere is a global responsibility.
GLOOMY|10|adj. 1 shadowy, shaded, shady, murky, dim, dusky, dull, dark, cloudy, overcast, obscure, black, inky, Literary Stygian: It is too gloomy a day to have a picnic. 2 depressed, melancholy, sad, dejected, morose, glum, lugubrious, unhappy, cheerless, dismal, moody, down, downcast, desolate, doleful, sorrowful, crestfallen, chap-fallen, downhearted, forlorn, despondent, miserable, joyless, dispirited, despairing, dreary, sullen, blue, distressed, down in the mouth, in the doldrums, saturnine, Colloq (down) in the dumps: Both of them have been very gloomy since the divorce. 3 depressing, cheerless, dreary, dismal, dispiriting, sad, disheartening: The d÷cor is much too gloomy for a doctor's waiting-room.
GLOSSY|8|adj. 1 shining, shiny, smooth, polished, glazed, lustrous, burnished, smooth, sleek, waxed, glassy, glistening: Our magazine is printed on glossy paper. 2 slick, specious, put-on, artificial, meretricious, contrived, pretended, simulated, feigned, insincere, pseudo, false, unreal; bogus, counterfeit, fraudulent, imitation, Colloq phoney or US also phony: It is only a glossy remake of the original film.
GOBLIN|9|n. elf, gnome, hobgoblin, imp, kobold, leprechaun, demon, brownie, pixie, nix or nixie: On Hallowe'en the ghouls and goblins will get you if you don't watch out!
GOLDEN|8|adj. 1 yellow, yellowish, gold, blond or blonde, flaxen, aureate; tow(-haired): Her golden tresses fell about her shoulders. 2 gold, auriferous; gilded, gilt, aureate; Technical auric, aurous: They drank together from a golden bowl. 3 bright, shining, brilliant, sunny, gleaming, lustrous, shiny, glittering, dazzling, resplendent, radiant, glowing, sparkling: We emerged from the black tunnel into golden sunshine. 4 happy, blissful, delightful, joyful, glorious, joyous, exuberant: We can never recapture the golden days of our youth. 5 flourishing, halcyon, prosperous, thriving, favourable, excellent, outstanding, productive, fertile, blessed, blest, good, successful, palmy: After the golden age of Greece and Rome, Europe was plunged into the dismal gloom of the Dark Ages. 6 gifted, talented, favoured, special, exceptional, favourite, cherished, pet, Brit blue-eyed, white-headed, white-haired, US fair-haired: As long as the company's profits were increasing, Hamilton was the golden boy. 7 advantageous, propitious, auspicious, promising, rosy, opportune, optimistic, favourable: She missed a golden opportunity by turning down the job.
GOODLY|9|adj. considerable, sizeable, substantial, ample, great, large, significant, consequential: The museum attracts a goodly number of visitors each year.
GOSPEL|9|n. truth, fact, certainty: He swears that his story is gospel.
GOSSIP|7|n. 1 chat, conversation, talk, chit-chat, small talk, palaver; tittle-tattle, prattle; Scots clishmaclaver; gup; Colloq Brit natter, chin-wag: I was just having a little gossip with my neighbour. 2 rumour, scandal, hearsay, information, on dit, word, Colloq grapevine, (inside) info, tittle-tattle, Slang dope, Chiefly US scuttlebutt, US and Canadian poop: The latest gossip is that she left him for another woman. 3 rumour-mill, rumour-monger, scandalmonger, gossip-monger, newsmonger, busybody, tattle-tale, quidnunc, blabber, blatherskite, tell-tale, talebearer, flibbertigibbet, Colloq big-mouth, chatterbox, blabbermouth, Nosy Parker: That old gossip will tell everybody your business. --v. 4 Sometimes, gossip about. bruit, tattle, rumour, whisper, blether or US blather, gabble, Colloq blab, Brit natter, Slang jaw: I was just gossiping to my friend about your new job.
GOVERN|10|v. 1 rule, control, direct, reign, hold sway (over), lead, conduct, guide, manage, regulate, run, supervise, superintend, oversee, steer, captain, pilot, command, head (up), look after, sit on the throne, wield the sceptre, wear the crown, run the show, be in power, be in charge (of), exercise or wield power or control (over), have or hold the whip hand, Colloq wear the pants, be in the saddle or driver's seat: Catherine governed with an iron hand. 2 control, check, bridle, curb, master, subdue, restrain, contain, hold in, suppress, repress: You must govern the urge to scream out.
GREEDY|9|adj. 1 ravenous, voracious, gluttonous, piggish, hoggish, swinish, cormorant, edacious, esurient, insatiable, unquenchable: I'd love another slice, but I mustn't be greedy. 2 avaricious, acquisitive, covetous, grasping, craving; materialistic, money-hungry: If some people were less greedy, there would be plenty for everyone. 3 stingy, miserly, mean, selfish, niggardly, parsimonious, penurious, penny-pinching, mercenary, close-fisted, tight-fisted, close, Colloq near, tight, Brit mingy: He's so greedy that he asks beggars for receipts.
GRIEVE|10|v. 1 mourn, bemoan, lament, regret, rue, deplore, bewail, mope, eat one's heart out: Sylvia is still grieving over the loss of her husband. 2 weep, cry, mourn, moan, keen, suffer, sorrow; shed tears, complain: Go in and try to comfort the grieving widow.
GRISLY|10|adj. gruesome, gory, abhorrent, abominable, awful, appalling, hideous, shocking, nasty, dreadful, repulsive, repellent, repugnant, disgusting, sickening, nauseating, horrific, horrid, horrendous, horrifying, terrible, terrifying, terrific: A grisly scene greeted the soldiers who liberated the concentration camp.
GRITTY|8|adj. 1 sandy, gravelly, granular, grainy, rough, abrasive, rasping, arenose: The texture of the mud-pack felt somewhat gritty on her face. 2 courageous, valorous, brave, resolute, tough, mettlesome, plucky, spirited, game, intrepid, dauntless, tenacious, determined, persistent, firm, hardy, staunch, stalwart, doughty, fearless, Colloq gutsy, spunky: The band of gritty frontiersman was led by Sheriff Boswell.
GROGGY|8|adj. unsteady, shaky, wobbly, weak-kneed, weak, staggering, stupefied, dazed, stunned, reeling, punch-drunk, numb, numbed, benumbed, faint, in a trance or stupor, muddled, addled, confused, bewildered, confounded, puzzled, baffled, befuddled, Colloq dopey, punchy, woozy, Brit muzzy: I was still groggy from the blow on the head.
GROOVE|8|n. slot, cut, channel, furrow, gouge, trough; flute, scratch, striation or stria, rifling, rifle, Architecture glyph, Technical sulcus: The door slides in these grooves at the sides.
GROUND|8|n. 1 earth, soil, turf, sod, dirt, loam, clay; land, terrain: There is a great hole in the ground behind my house. 2 territory, area, range, scope, compass: We covered the ground quite thoroughly at our meeting. 3 Often, grounds. basis, foundation, base, reason, footing, justification, rationale, argument, cause, motive, excuse: What are her grounds for suing for divorce? 4 grounds. sediment, dregs, lees, deposit, settlings, Brit grouts: Filter out the grounds before drinking the coffee. --v. 5 base, establish, organize, found; settle, set: The school's philosophy is grounded on the principles of Maria Montessori. 6 instruct, teach, train, coach, tutor, inform, prepare, initiate: The purpose of the course is to ground students in basic mathematics.
GROWTH|8|n. 1 development, evolution, evolvement, cultivation, nurturing, increase, expansion, broadening, extension, enlargement, spread, proliferation, flowering: The growth of education was a slow and painful process. 2 vegetation, crop: The area is covered with a dense growth of timber. 3 advance, advancement, success, improvement, expansion, rise, progress: The growth of the economy has slowed down in the last quarter. 4 wen, excrescence, wart, lump, tumour, swelling, intumescence: He developed an ugly growth on his nose.
GRUDGE|9|n. 1 bitterness, resentment, rancour, ill will, hard feelings, spite, grievance, pique, dislike, aversion, antipathy, animus, animosity, enmity, venom, malice, malevolence, hatred: He had harboured a grudge against her ever since she was promoted. --v. 2 begrudge, resent, envy, mind, covet: She grudges other people their simple pleasures.
GUILTY|10|adj. 1 responsible, culpable, answerable, blameworthy, at fault, delinquent, wrong; offending, reprehensible: Whoever was guilty will be prosecuted. First we must find the guilty party. 2 remorseful, contrite, regretful, sorry, apologetic, repentant, sorrowful, conscience-stricken, rueful, penitent; ashamed, shame-faced, sheepish, embarrassed, red-faced: Gavin felt terribly guilty for having insulted Tina.
GURGLE|8|v. 1 bubble, burble, babble, ripple, splash, plash, lap, murmur, purl: The cool brook gurgled merrily through the meadow. --n. 2 babble, burble, bubbling, babbling, burbling, splash, gurgling, splashing, plashing, murmuring, purl, purling: I lay back, listening to the gurgle of the spring among the rocks.
GYRATE|10|v. rotate, spin, revolve, turn (round or about), whirl, twirl, swirl, pirouette; swivel: The dancers were gyrating to the deafening music.
HABITU|11|n. frequenter, patron, regular customer, Colloq regular: Larry has been a habitu÷ of The Bell Inn for 20 years.
HAGGLE|7|v. wrangle, bargain, higgle, bicker, chaffer, palter, dispute, squabble, quibble, negotiate; barter, deal; Colloq US dicker: However little you ask for the lamp, she's sure to haggle over the price.
HAIRDO|10|n. coiffure, hairstyle, cut, coif: Your hairdo is very becoming.
HALLOW|10|v. 1 consecrate, bless, sanctify, dedicate, honour, enshrine, glorify: Englishmen look upon this battlefield as hallowed ground. 2 venerate, worship, revere, reverence, respect, honour, pay homage or respect or honour to, exalt: We must observe the hallowed traditions of the university.
HAMPER|13|v. slow, balk or baulk, delay, hold up, retard, inhibit, encumber, hinder, obstruct, block, impede, prevent, interfere with, frustrate, restrict, curb, limit, handicap, restrain, trammel, bar, barricade, shackle, clog, curtail, lessen, reduce, diminish: Ice floes hampered their further progress.
HANKER|13|v. Usually, hanker after or for. yearn for, long for, thirst after or for, hunger after or for, itch for, pine for, lust after or for, covet, crave, have a hankering for, want, desire, fancy, Colloq have a yen for: She hankered after a big box of chocolates.
HAPPEN|7|v. 1 occur, take place, come about, go on, come to pass, develop; betide, chance, prove, materialize, Colloq transpire, come off, Slang cook: What is happening? As it happens, everyone has already left. 2 befall, become of: What will happen to me if I refuse? 3 happen on or upon. come upon, chance or hit on or upon, stumble on or upon, find, turn up, encounter, meet with: It was then that I happened on an old letter of his.
HARASS|7|v. badger, harry, hector, trouble, torment, bother, exasperate, hound, plague, persecute, vex, annoy, irritate, pester, worry, beset, bait, nag, pick on or at, tease, torture, Brit chivvvy or chivy or chevy: The police harass me by turning up at all hours for 'help with their inquiries'.
HARDLY|13|adv. scarcely, barely, only, just, only just; not quite, by no means; seldom, rarely: I hardly knew her. There was hardly enough to eat. He hardly ever visits his old mum any more.
HASTEN|9|v. 1 hurry, rush, make haste, fly, run, sprint, race, bolt, dash, scurry, scamper, scuttle, speed: He hastened forward to greet her. 2 hurry (up), speed (up), dispatch or despatch, send, move, quicken, accelerate, expedite, rush, impel, urge: Is there any way to hasten delivery of the mail?
HAZARD|19|n. 1 peril, danger, risk, endangerment, threat, jeopardy: The greatest hazard in sailing single-handed round the world is the loneliness. 2 chance, gamble, uncertainty, luck, fortune: They banned all games that depended on hazard. --v. 3 venture, dare; gamble, risk, jeopardize, endanger, threaten, imperil, stake: May I hazard a guess as to the origin of the word? He hazarded his entire fortune on the turn of a card.
HEALTH|7|n. 1 condition, fitness, trim, fettle, form, constitution: My health has improved enough for me to return to work. 2 healthiness, haleness, healthfulness, robustness, vigour, vigorousness, salubrity, salubriousness, well-being, strength: The health of the economy is good.
HEARTY|12|adj. 1 genial, warm, kind-hearted, affectionate, amiable, amicable, friendly, affable, cordial, open, convivial: I was greeted by a hearty welcome when I returned. 2 genuine, unfeigned, authentic, sincere, heartfelt, warm, wholehearted, honest, earnest, devout, stalwart, stout: Please give Desmond my hearty congratulations. 3 enthusiastic, vigorous, energetic, eager, zealous, exuberant, robust, active, animated, strong: They are hearty supporters of our cause. 4 abundant, ample, substantial, solid, sizeable, satisfying, square; nourishing, invigorating, strengthening: On Sundays, we had a hearty meal at midday when we could afford it. 5 healthy, hale, vigorous, robust, strong, sound: Well, Eric, now that you're over your malaria you appear to be quite hearty.
HEATED|10|adj. impassioned, excited, intensified, aroused, quickened, stimulated, inflamed, vehement, fiery, frenzied, frantic, frenetic, passionate, fervent, fervid, ardent, intense, furious, stormy, tempestuous, violent; angry, bitter: There was a heated dispute over animal rights, which finally led to blows.
HEAVEN|12|n. 1 paradise, bliss, hereafter, nirvana, Abraham's bosom, Elysian Fields or Elysium, Valhalla, Zion, happy hunting-grounds, Avalon, Isles of the Blessed, the Blessed or Fortunate or Happy Isles or Islands: Will I go to heaven when I die? 2 heavens. sky, skies, firmament, Literary welkin, empyrean: The heavens opened and the rain started to pour down. 3 happiness, bliss, joy, rapture, ecstasy, paradise, contentment, seventh heaven, Eden, Garden of Eden, Utopia, heaven on earth, paradise on earth: Darby said that his years with Joan had been sheer heaven.
HECKLE|7|v. badger, pester, annoy, irritate, bother, nettle, bait, harass, harry, plague, hector, taunt, jeer, Colloq hassle, bug, Brit and Australian and New Zealand barrack: One man kept heckling the speaker with persistent interruptions.
HECTIC|13|adj. feverish, excited, agitated, busy, bustling, rushed, hyperactive, over-active, frenzied, frantic, chaotic, wild, mad, frenetic, riotous: What with the new baby and everyone else having the flu, I've had a pretty hectic week.
HEIGHT|6|n. 1 altitude, elevation, level; tallness: At what height is the second camp on Mount Everest? The height of the skyscrapers impressed me. 2 acme, crest, pinnacle, top, zenith, apogee, peak, apex, maximum, high point, summit, climax, culmination, extreme: Popularity of that style reached its height in the 1930s. His remark reflected the height of arrogance. 3 Often, heights. elevation, mound, hill, eminence, prominence, mountain, peak, crag, summit; tor, cliff, bluff, promontory, escarpment, scarp, headland, No. Brit fell: As we gazed down from the heights, the villages seemed tiny.
HERMIT|11|n. recluse, eremite, anchorite or anchoret or anchoress, solitary, stylite: He has retired from the world to become a hermit.
HEROIC|11|adj. 1 brave, courageous, bold, valiant, valorous, undaunted, dauntless, stout-hearted, noble, intrepid, gallant, chivalrous, daring, plucky, audacious, fearless, manly, virile, manful: We published a book about Aylesworthy's heroic exploits. 2 noble, altruistic, magnanimous, generous, upstanding, honourable, virtuous, staunch, steadfast, stalwart, determined: This plaque commemorates Manzanilla's heroic work in curbing religious persecution. 3 desperate, drastic, extreme: Despite heroic efforts, it was impossible to rescue the entire crew. 4 grand, larger than life, exaggerated, magniloquent, grandiose, extravagant; giant, gigantic, enormous, huge, titanic, colossal, stupendous: The heroic phrases of the demagogue still ring in my ears. Statues of heroic proportions have been moved from Abu Simbel. 5 mythological, epic, Homeric, legendary, classical, fabulous, wonderful, miraculous: He enjoyed tales of heroic demigods like Hercules. 6 majestic, lofty, elevated, grand, august, towering, eminent, distinguished, prominent: The entire court was silent as the heroic figure of the emperor entered.
HIDDEN|7|adj. concealed, secret, obscure(d), occult, veiled, cryptic, recondite, arcane, covert, esoteric, unseen, private: Was this an ordinary shopping list or did it have some hidden meaning?
HIGHLY|9|adv. 1 greatly, much, tremendously, well, enthusiastically, warmly, immensely, hugely: Her play was highly praised by all the critics. 2 very, extremely, quite, exceptionally, extraordinarily, incomparably, decidedly: It is highly unlikely that I shall come to your party. 3 favourably, well, enthusiastically, approvingly, warmly, praisefully: They seem to think highly of him at the office. 4 well, influentially, powerfully, strongly, authoritatively, effectively, importantly: I have the information from a highly placed government official.
HIPPIE|7|n. bohemian, Old-fashioned drop-out, beatnik, beat, longhair, flower child or person, hipster: A few hippies were playing their guitars at the street corner.
HOBBLE|7|v. 1 limp, falter, dodder, totter, stagger, reel, weave, stumble, shuffle, shamble: I hobbled about on crutches for weeks. 2 shackle, fetter, restrain, restrict, hamper, hinder, impede, trammel: As hobbled horses do not stray, she tried to think of some way to hobble Clarence's errant ways. --n. 3 limp, shuffle, shamble, claudication, stagger: With the leg-irons on, I could walk only with a jerking hobble.
HOBNOB|13|v. associate, fraternize, socialize, consort, mingle, rub elbows or shoulders, mix, hang about or around, keep company: He hobnobs with the aristocrats.
HOLDUP|12|n. 1 (armed) robbery, Colloq stick-up, mugging, US heist: The robbers escaped with my gold watch in the hold-up. 2 delay, set-back, hitch, snag, interruption, lacuna, gap, hiatus, break, stoppage: The cause of the hold-up was an overturned van.
HOLLOW|10|adj. 1 vacant, empty, void, unfilled: A hollow space in the wall concealed a secret passage. 2 sunken, concave, indented, dented, sunken, recessed, depressed: Dust gathers in the hollow places of the floor. 3 hungry, ravenous, starved, empty, famished: I'm feeling hollow and should prefer to eat now, not later. 4 insincere, false, hypocritical, sham, artificial, counterfeit, feigned, fraudulent, spurious, deceitful, mendacious, deceptive, cynical: Politicians campaigning for office often make hollow promises they do not intend to keep. 5 empty, futile, costly, Pyrrhic, worthless, vain, unavailing, bootless, fruitless, profitless, unprofitable, valueless, ineffective, pointless, senseless, meaningless: Winning the lawsuit was a hollow victory, for the man was bankrupt. 6 muffled, dull, flat, low, sepulchral, toneless: His voice sounded hollow, as if he were speaking into a metal bowl. --n. 7 hole, cavity, cavern, crater, basin, depression, excavation, pit, trough, furrow, indentation, dent, impression; valley, dale, dell, glen, dip: We dug ourselves in a hollow in the ground hoping not to be seen. The dog herded the sheep into the hollow near the stream. --v. 8 excavate, dig (out or up), gouge, scoop, furrow, dredge: Huskies hollow out places for themselves to sleep in the snow.
HOMAGE|12|n. obeisance, respect, deference, honour, esteem, admiration; loyalty, allegiance, fidelity, tribute: Today we pay homage to those who fought and died so that we might be free.
HOMELY|14|adj. 1 homey, homelike, unpretentious, modest, unassuming, simple, unaffected, informal, plain, natural, everyday, unsophisticated, homespun, commonplace, ordinary, familiar, friendly, amiable, neighbourly, affable, congenial, Colloq chiefly US folksy: Her success as a doctor is traceable in part to her homely approach. 2 homey, homelike, warm, cosy, snug, domestic, comfortable, easy, serene, peaceful, restful, tranquil: I like staying here for the homely atmosphere. 3 ugly, plain, uncomely, unattractive, unlovely, ill-favoured: Peggy-Jo's rather homely face is redeemed by her good-humoured nature.
HONEST|9|adj. 1 trustworthy, truthful, veracious, trusty, honourable, creditable, decent, law-abiding, uncorrupted, uncorrupt, incorruptible, ethical, moral, virtuous, principled, upright, high-minded, dependable, reliable, reputable, on the up and up: How often does one meet an honest person in politics? 2 above-board, straight, square, square-dealing, fair, just, on the up and up, straightforward, proper, genuine, bona fide, real, authentic, Colloq on the level, US square-shooting: I write because I cannot earn an honest living. Would Felix give me an honest deal on a used car? 3 candid, frank, open, plain, straightforward, forthright, direct, sincere, ingenuous, explicit, uninhibited, unreserved, unrestrained, unconstrained, above-board, plain-spoken, unambiguous, unequivocal, Colloq upfront: To be completely honest, I cannot stand the sight of you. 4 fair, just, equitable, legitimate, valid, rightful, sound, proper: He gets an honest day's pay for an honest day's work.
HONOUR|9|n. 1 integrity, honesty, fairness, justness, probity, uprightness, decency, goodness, righteousness, rectitude, justice, morality, principles, virtuousness, virtue: Doing the right thing is a matter of honour. 2 respect, esteem, reverence, veneration, approbation, deference, admiration, homage, regard, accolade, praise, kudos, fame, glory, celebrity, distinction, prestige, illustriousness: Great honour accompanies the award of a Nobel prize. 3 privilege, distinction, pleasure, joy, delight; credit, blessing: I have the honour to introduce tonight's speaker. It has been an honour to serve under you, Admiral. 4 virginity, chastity, virtue, purity, innocence: How did she manage to preserve her honour when fighting with the partisans? --v. 5 respect, esteem, revere, venerate, adulate, adore, worship, approve, prize, value, defer to, admire, pay homage to: Albert Schweitzer was much honoured in the latter part of his life. 6 praise, laud, glorify, celebrate, eulogize, salute, hail, acclaim, ennoble, dignify, exalt: We have come together to honour those who have died for their country. 7 keep, maintain, carry out, live up to, discharge, fulfil, observe, meet: She has done her best to honour her obligations. 8 pay, redeem, accept, clear, cash: The bank refused to honour his cheque because of 'insufficient funds'.
HORROR|7|n. 1 fear and loathing, repugnance, terror, dread, hatred, revulsion, detestation, abhorrence, distaste, dislike; aversion, antipathy, hostility, animosity, animus, rancour; odium, execration: She has a horror of bats. 2 fear, dismay, distress, dread, fright, alarm, upset, perturbation, panic, terror, fear and trembling, trepidation, anxiety, angst, apprehension, uneasiness, queasiness, nervousness, awe: The doctor helped me overcome my horror of flying.
HOTAIR|9|n. blather or blether, bunkum, verbiage, talk, wind, pretentiousness, pomposity, bombast, grandiloquence, magniloquence, flatulence, gasconade, rodomontade, Colloq claptrap, bosh, gas, guff: Management's promises of pay increases were nothing but hot air.
HOTBED|12|n. breeding ground, fertile source: Slums are a hotbed of crime.
HOWLER|12|n. blunder, mistake, error, gaffe; malapropism, Irish bull; Brit bloomer, US clinker, Colloq Brit clanger, US boner: One paper contained the howler, 'Money is the route of all evil', which the author explained should be corrected to, 'The love of money is the root of all evil'.
HUDDLE|7|n. 1 cluster, group, bunch, clump, pack, herd, crowd, throng, mass: Everyone got into a huddle, trying to keep warm. 2 meeting, conference, discussion, consultation: They were in a huddle, deciding what to do next. --v. 3 cluster, gather, crowd or press together, throng or flock together, nestle, jam or cram together, squeeze together: We huddled in basements during air raids. 4 meet, discuss, confer, consult: Let's huddle on this question of the advertising schedule.
HUMBLE|8|adj. 1 modest, reserved, unpretentious, unostentatious, self-effacing, unassuming, unpresuming: For someone who has accomplished so much, she is quite humble. 2 submissive, meek, servile, obsequious, deferential, mild, respectful, subservient, subdued: Usually pompous, Nigel became humble in the presence of the chairman. 3 lowly, low, inferior, mean, ignoble, ordinary, plebeian, common, simple, obscure, unprepossessing, unimportant, undistinguished, insignificant; low-born, base, base-born: He lives in a humble cottage. Though she came from a humble background, she rose to become prime minister. --v. 4 chasten, bring or pull down, subdue, abase, debase, demean, lower, degrade, downgrade, reduce, make (someone) eat humble pie, lose face, shame, humiliate, crush, break, mortify, chagrin, Colloq put down, take (someone) down a peg or notch: He found army discipline a humbling experience.
HUMOUR|11|n. 1 funniness, comedy, wit, facetiousness, ludicrousness, drollery, jocoseness or jocosity, jocularity, waggishness, raillery, banter: One writer defined humour as 'the happy compound of pathos and playfulness', another referred to the sense of humour as a 'modulating and restraining balance-wheel'. 2 comedy, farce, jokes, jests, witticisms, wit, Slang wisecracks, gags: Milton was scarcely known as a writer of humour. 3 mood, frame of mind, temper; spirit(s); disposition, nature, temperament: She is in a bad humour till after breakfast. --v. 4 soothe, gratify, placate, please, mollify, indulge, appease, pamper, cosset, coddle, mollycoddle, jolly, baby, spoil: They are trying to humour him because he's in a bad mood.
HUNGER|10|n. 1 hungriness, emptiness, appetite, ravenousness, voraciousness, voracity; famine, starvation: We ate leaves to stave off the pangs of hunger. Some optimists hope to eliminate hunger from the planet by the year 2000. 2 yearning, desire, craving, itch, thirst, longing, hankering, mania, cupidity, Formal cacoethes, Colloq yen: She felt an insatiable hunger for intellectual companionship. --v. 3 Usually, hunger for or after. crave, yearn, desire, thirst, want, hanker, Colloq yen, have a yen: Blessed are they who hunger and thirst after righteousness.
HUNGRY|13|adj. 1 famished, starved, starving, ravenous, voracious, empty, hollow, Colloq chiefly Brit peckish: I'm hungry enough to eat a horse. 2 craving, covetous, eager, avid, greedy, keen, yearning, desirous, longing, hungering, thirsting, starving, dying, Colloq hankering: Marooned for years, Crusoe was hungry for the sight of another human being. 3 acquisitive, greedy, thirsty, insatiable, deprived: The parched, hungry earth drank up the rain.
HUNTER|9|n. huntsman, huntswoman, stalker, tracker, Nimrod, Orion; huntress: An expert hunter, she bagged three tigers last year.
HURDLE|10|n. 1 barrier, obstacle, impediment, hindrance, obstruction, bar, handicap, restraint, snag, (stumbling) block, check, difficulty, complication, interference: Can she overcome the hurdle of prejudice against women? --v. 2 leap (over), vault (over), jump (over): The fugitive easily hurdled the fence around the compound.
HURTLE|9|v. rush (headlong), tear, shoot, race, speed; plunge: The car hurtled round the corner and crashed into a tree. Two bodies hurtled past me into the abyss below.
HUSTLE|9|v. 1 rush, push, hurry, hasten, run, dash, scamper, scuttle, scurry, sprint: Mrs Grumble hustles off to the market every morning. He said that one must really hustle to make a living these days. 2 shove, push, drive, force, hasten, expedite, press: The bill was hustled through the legislature in just one day. 3 shove, crowd, push, jostle, elbow, thrust, force: She tried to hustle her way to the front of the queue. 4 push, eject, force, coerce, drive, Colloq bounce: He was hustled out the back door. --n. 5 pushing, jostling, buffeting, jarring, elbowing, shoving, nudging: We always take taxis to avoid the hustle in the underground. 6 activity, action, stir, movement: I can't concentrate with all the hustle and bustle going on in the office.
HYBRID|15|n. mixture, cross-breed, half-breed, mongrel, cross, composite, combination, compound: The best wheat for this region is a hybrid developed in our laboratory.
IGNORE|7|v. 1 disregard, overlook, pass over or by, turn a blind eye to, be blind to, turn one's back on, turn a deaf ear to, wink at, brush off or aside: If you are over 65, you may ignore this paragraph. 2 snub, give (someone) the cold shoulder, reject, send to Coventry, turn one's back on, Colloq give (someone) the brush-off or go-by, cut, turn one's nose up at: I don't care if you are cruel to me, just don't ignore me.
IMMUNE|4|adj. inoculated, vaccinated; exempt, safe, protected, insusceptible or unsusceptible, invulnerable, untouched, unaffected: She never caught smallpox because a mild case of cowpox had made her immune. Rick mistakenly thought himself immune to Sally's charms.
IMPACT|12|n. 1 collision, contact, striking, crash, smash, bump, colliding, crashing, smashing, bumping: The impact of the car against the stone wall was heard a mile away. 2 effect, impression, influence, import, meaning, bearing, force, thrust, weight, burden, brunt, repercussions, results, consequences: It is becoming clear that technology is having an adverse impact on the environment. --v. 3 strike, hit, collide with: When its orbit decays, the satellite will impact the surface of the moon. 4 affect, modify, change: I wonder how the news of the bankruptcy will impact share prices.
IMPAIR|10|v. weaken, cripple, damage, harm, mar, injure, spoil, ruin: 'I understand that leading a wild life can impair your hearing.' 'What did you say?'
IMPALE|10|v. spear, stab, pierce, skewer, spit, stick, transfix, spike: They impaled the heads of their enemies on poles as a warning.
IMPEDE|11|v. bar, obstruct, block, thwart, check, hinder, hamper, slow, retard, restrain, brake, hold up, delay, foil, confound, inhibit, curb, spike, stop: You can do nothing to impede the relentless march of time.
IMPORT|10|v. 1 introduce, bring in: We import the raw materials and export the finished product. 2 convey, mean, signify, denote, imply, betoken: He was a dictator, in all the senses that word imports. --n. 3 meaning, sense, denotation, signification, gist, drift, thrust, intention, implication, purport, connotation, suggestion, allusion, intimation: It was difficult for me to catch the import of her words. 4 importance, significance, weight, consequence, moment, substance: One could see at once that she was a personage of some import.
IMPOSE|10|v. 1 inflict, force, foist: Stop imposing your standards on others. 2 interrupt, interfere, intrude, interpose, insinuate: I hope I am not imposing? 3 levy, place, put, exact: A tax has been imposed on entertainment. 4 impose on or upon. a saddle, burden: He imposes on everyone with his demands for charity. b exploit, take advantage (of), misuse: I hope I am not imposing on your good will in what I ask.
IMPURE|10|adj. 1 dirty, soiled, unclean, sullied, tainted, polluted, defiled, foul, filthy, feculent, infected, scummy, putrid, putrescent, rotten: The water is impure and not fit to drink. 2 mixed, alloyed, contaminated, adulterated, debased, unrefined: Impure ore contains other substances which are removed during processing. 3 unclean, unhallowed, forbidden, disallowed, Judaism tref or treif or treifa: Certain foods are considered impure in some religions. 4 unchaste, immoral, sinful, wicked, evil, vile, unvirtuous, unvirginal, corrupted, defiled, debased, vitiated, degenerate, depraved, loose, wanton, lustful, promiscuous, libidinous, dissolute, licentious, obscene, prurient, dirty, filthy, lubricious or lubricous, salacious, lascivious, lewd, lecherous: The book was condemned as 'likely to encourage impure thoughts'.
IMPUTE|10|v. ascribe, assign, attribute, credit, charge, put or set down to; insinuate, imply, suggest, hint at: The critic imputed meanings to the book that the author had never intended.
INBORN|8|adj. innate, congenital, inherent, inherited, hereditary, inbred, natural, native, constitutional, deep-seated, deep-rooted, ingrained, instinctive or instinctual, Technical connate: A gift for music is inborn.
INCITE|4|v. stimulate, inspire, prompt, move, stir, stir or whip or work up, bestir, excite, fire, exhort, agitate, foment, inflame, provoke, rally, goad, spur, prick, prod, drive, push, egg on, encourage, urge, influence, wake, waken, awaken, rouse, arouse: Who was it that incited the crowd to violence?
INCOME|10|n. return, revenue(s), receipts, proceeds, profit(s), gain(s), takings: Most of his income is from investments.
INDEED|6|adv. 1 certainly, surely, to be sure, doubtless(ly), undoubtedly, undeniably, definitely, positively, absolutely, exactly, just so, actually, truly, truthfully, seriously, (all) joking aside, in (point of) fact, of course, really, in reality, to be realistic, naturally, upon my word, on my honour, on my oath, Brit rather, Colloq no kidding: Indeed, that is the news he has been expecting. 2 what is more, still, not to say, as a matter of fact, if the truth be known, to say the least: His had been a depressing, indeed miserable childhood. --interj. 3 Is that so!, You don't say!, Really!, By George!, By Jove!, (Upon) my word!, My goodness!, Goodness!, Gracious!, Mercy!, Good Lord!, Good heavens!, My stars!, Fancy that!, Imagine (that)!, Well, I'll be (damned)!, Colloq Brit Blimey!, Cor!, Crikey!: 'I've torn up the winning lottery ticket.' 'Indeed!'
INDICT|9|v. Often, indict for. charge (with), accuse (with or of), arraign (for), incriminate (in or for), inculpate (in or for), cite (for or with), denounce (for), blame (for or with); summon, summons, subpoena: She has been indicted for murder in the first degree.
INDUCE|9|v. 1 lead, persuade, influence, prevail on or upon, sway, move, convince, get, talk into, prompt, incite, instigate, actuate, motivate, impel, encourage, inspire, stimulate, nudge, push, press, urge, prod, goad, spur, egg on, coax, cajole, lure, entice, inveigle, seduce: He was induced to sell the secret plans to the enemy for a large sum. 2 cause, bring about or on, produce, give rise to, engender, create, generate, lead to; effect, occasion, set in motion: Some drugs induce a state of euphoria.
INDUCT|9|v. 1 install or instal, inaugurate, invest, instate, establish, swear in: Crocker was inducted as president of the lodge last night. 2 call up, enlist, conscript, enrol, register, US draft: He was inducted into the army at 18.
INFAMY|14|n. 1 notoriety, ill repute, ill fame, disrepute, shame, ignominy, obloquy, disgrace, dishonour, stigma, discredit: She has to suffer the infamy of her husband's treachery. 2 wickedness, evil, iniquity, villainy, heinousness, vileness, abomination, outrage, abhorrence, opprobrium, loathsomeness, detestation, hatred, odium, atrocity, revulsion, monstrosity, egregiousness, shame, shamefulness, disgrace, disgracefulness: The infamy of his profligate behaviour is widely known.
INFEST|9|v. invade, plague, beset, overrun, overspread, flood, swarm over, inundate, pervade, permeate, penetrate, infiltrate: Mosquitoes infested this area before the swamp was drained.
INFIRM|11|adj. 1 ill, indisposed, debilitated, frail, fragile, weak, feeble, weakened, ailing, decrepit, enfeebled, failing, wasted, on the decline, sick, sickly, unwell, lame, crippled: Campbell is infirm and unable to travel. 2 shaky, flimsy, wobbly, wobbling, doddering, unstable, faltering, vacillating, wavering, unsteady, unsteadfast, inconstant, changeable, irresolute: We must find stalwart recruits, recruits who are not infirm of purpose.
INFORM|11|v. 1 tell, apprise, advise, communicate, enlighten, notify, acquaint, brief; impart, disclose, divulge, reveal, report, Colloq tip (off): I have informed everyone about the storm warning. 2 Usually, inform against or on. betray, incriminate, implicate, identify, Colloq tell (on), blab (on), rat (on), US blow the whistle (on); Slang peach (on), snitch (on), squeal (on), put the finger on, sing, name names, Brit nark (on), grass (on), split on, US finger: He informed on his accomplices in return for a lighter sentence.
INHALE|9|v. breathe in, inspire, draw or suck in: I stepped outside and inhaled the fresh spring air.
INJECT|15|v. 1 introduce, insert, drive or force (in), shoot (in), intromit; inoculate: The serum is injected into the upper arm. The doctor injected me with antibiotics. 2 introduce, insert, imbue, instil, bring in, interject, throw in: Can't you inject a little more enthusiasm into your work?
INJURE|13|v. 1 harm, wound, hurt, damage, impair: He's sure to injure himself if he's allowed to play with a knife. 2 wrong, offend, abuse, hurt, wound, outrage, slight, insult, affront, mistreat, misuse, ill-treat, maltreat: She starts the arguments yet she invariably takes the role of the injured party.
INJURY|16|n. damage, hurt, harm, wound, impairment; wrong, abuse, maltreatment, mistreatment, mischief, offence, outrage; mayhem: The injury was less painful to his foot than to his self-esteem.
INMATE|8|n. prisoner, convict, captive, jailbird or Brit also gaolbird, Slang Brit lag; patient, case; inhabitant, occupant, resident: The inmates were fed on bread and water in those days. Inmates at the sanatorium are well treated.
INROAD|7|n. 1 incursion, raid, attack, invasion, penetration, foray, encroachment, forced entry, intrusion: Our armoured units have made an inroad into enemy territory. 2 Often, inroads. advance(s), progress, breakthrough: Have researchers made significant inroads into the problem of AIDS?
INSANE|6|adj. 1 mad, demented, psychotic, schizophrenic, schizoid, non compos mentis, manic, maniacal, lunatic, deranged, unbalanced, psychoneurotic, neurotic, eccentric, crazy, of unsound mind, crazed, unhinged, out of one's mind or head, mad as a hatter or a March hare, quirky, Colloq round the bend or twist, off one's rocker or chump, loopy, loony, certifiable, mental, screwy, dotty, cuckoo, not all there, not have all one's marbles, off-the-wall, out of it, Brit potty, Slang daft, nutty (as a fruit cake), nuts, spaced out, spacy, batty, have bats in one's belfry, not right upstairs, barmy (in the crumpet), crackers, have a screw loose, schizo, Brit bonkers, US bugs, bughouse, loco, crazy as a bedbug, (gone) off the deep end, kooky, kinky, out to lunch: Witney was certified insane and institutionalized. You're insane if you think I am going out on that ledge. 2 stupid, dumb, dull, silly, asinine, ridiculous, idiotic, irrational, absurd, fatuous, ludicrous, foolish, nonsensical, irresponsible, reckless, wild, imbecilic, moronic, feeble-minded, hare-brained, addle-pated, addle-brained, scatterbrained, thimble-witted, attocerebral, Brit gormless, Colloq nutty, screwy, crazy: People in love sometimes do insane things.
INSERT|6|v. 1 introduce, place or put or stick in, intercalate; interpolate, interject, interpose: Please do not insert comments of your own. --n. 2 insertion, addition, addendum, supplement, advertisement, broadside, brochure, tip-in, handbill, circular, Colloq Brit advert, US ad, flier or flyer; outsert, wraparound or wrapround: The postage will be higher with this eight-page insert.
INSIDE|7|n. 1 interior, centre, core, middle, heart; contents; lining, backing: From the outside one could never guess what the inside looks like. Please paint the inside of the cabinet blue. 2 Usually, insides. bowels, entrails, viscera, gut(s), stomach, Colloq innards: He has had trouble with his insides for years. 3 inside out. everted, reversed; backwards: He is wearing his pullover inside out. --adj. 4 favoured, advantageous, favourable, advantaged, privileged, preferred, preferential, propitious, exclusive; internal, private, secret, confidential, privy, clandestine: She has an inside track to the chairman. He claims to have inside information about the successful bidder. 5 internal, interior; arranged, prearranged: The police think it was an inside job. --adv. 6 fundamentally, basically, at bottom, by nature: Despite her gruff exterior, inside she is quite sentimental. 7 in prison, in jail or Brit also gaol, imprisoned, incarcerated, Slang Brit in quod, US up the river: He'll be inside for another five years. --prep. 8 within, US inside of: Because of rain, the party was held inside the building.
INSIST|6|v. 1 demand, require, call for, command, importune, urge, exhort, argue, remonstrate, expostulate: The chairman insisted that proper parliamentary procedure be followed. 2 assert, state, declare, emphasize, stress, maintain, persist, hold, dwell on, vow, avow, aver, asseverate: He insisted that he wanted to see the last act but she insisted on leaving.
INSTIL|6|v. instill, imbue, inculcate, infuse, ingrain or engrain, implant; insinuate, impart: From childhood a sense of justice was instilled in us.
INSULT|6|v. 1 offend, affront, slight, outrage; abuse, dishonour, defame, injure; asperse, slander, libel: Don't be insulted if I arrive late and leave early. You insult her by suggesting that she has never heard of Keats. --n. 2 offence, affront, indignity, slight, outrage, barb, dig, slur, dishonour, abuse, defamation, discourtesy; aspersion, slander, libel; Colloq slap (in the face), put-down: Refusing to bow at a Japanese funeral is taken as an insult.
INTACT|8|adj. whole, entire, perfect, complete, integral, sound, unbroken, solid, (all) in one piece, undivided, uncut, together, untouched, unreduced, undiminished, unimpaired, inviolate, unblemished, unscathed, uninjured, unharmed, undamaged, unsullied, undefiled, untainted: The ancient city has been preserved virtually intact.
INTEND|7|v. mean, have in mind or in view, propose, contemplate, design, plan, aim, purpose, resolve, determine: I intend to give him a piece of my mind. She is intending to go, but I don't know if she will be able to.
INTENT|6|n. 1 intention, aim, goal, target, purpose, object, objective, end, design, plan, idea: Was it your intent that I should go with you? The charge is assault with intent to kill. 2 inclination, tendency, desire, intending: The mere intent to commit treason is often tantamount to treason. 3 to all intents and purposes. virtually, practically, for all practical purposes, (almost) as good as, (almost) the same as, more or less, in effect: Telling you that the position was being discontinued is, to all intents and purposes, the same as firing you. --adj. 4 concentrated, focused, fixed, steady, intense, determined, earnest, engrossed, absorbed, rapt, steadfast, resolute, attentive: Her intent stare unnerved many of her lecturers. 5 bent, set, resolute, committed, decided, firm, keen; resolved, eager, firm, determined, zealous, avid, enthusiastic,: If you're intent on going, we won't try to change your mind.
INVENT|9|v. 1 create, devise, contrive, originate, think up, dream up, conceive, concoct, make up, imagine, formulate, improvise, design, hit upon; coin: He claims to have invented the toothpaste tube. 2 fabricate, make up, concoct, Colloq cook up: She invented that story about having been a lion-tamer.
INVEST|9|v. 1 venture, lay out, put in, sink: She was persuaded to invest her life savings in unit trusts. 2 devote, allot, spend, contribute, supply, provide: We have invested a lot of time in cleaning up local government. 3 install or instal, inaugurate, induct, initiate, instate, establish, ordain, swear in, seat: He will be invested with the Order of Merit on Tuesday.
ISLAND|7|n. isle, islet, ait, cay, key; atoll; archipelago; Brit dialect eyot, holm: There are actually about 1500 islands in the Thousand Islands in the St Lawrence river.
JABBER|11|v. 1 blether or US only blather, chatter, babble, gibber, gabble, prate, prattle, patter, drivel, rattle, Brit natter, Scots yatter, Colloq gab, gas, yap, witter: The couple behind me jabbered throughout the entire film. --n. 2 See jargon, 2.
JAGGED|12|adj. rough, uneven, notched, sawtooth, ragged, toothed, spiked, indented, denticulate, serrated, chipped: I cut myself on the jagged edge of that broken window.
JAILER|13|n. Brit gaoler, turnkey, guard, Brit warder, governor, US warden, Slang screw: The jailers let us out for exercise for an hour each day.
JANGLE|14|v. 1 clatter, clash, rattle, clang, clank, crash, ring, jingle: The chains jangled as the prisoners marched to their cells. 2 jar, upset, irritate: The continuous screaming of the sirens jangled my nerves. --n. 3 jangling, clatter, clash, rattle, jarring, clang, clanging, clank, clanking, crash, clangour, noise, din, racket, clamour, dissonance, cacophony, reverberation, Literary stridor: I heard the jangle of the rag-and-bone man's cart in the next street.
JARGON|14|n. 1 cant, argot, parlance, idiom, vernacular, slang; patois, Creole, dialect, pidgin; Colloq lingo: In the jargon of philately, this is known as a 'first day cover'. 2 blether or US also blather, chatter, babble, gibberish, jabber, gabble, gobbledegook or gobbledygook, prattle, patter, drivel, cackle, jabberwocky, twaddle, (stuff and) nonsense, rubbish, codswallop, balderdash, bunk, humbug, palaver, bavardage, Colloq rot, garbage, hogwash, bosh, piffle, flapdoodle, chit-chat, gab, claptrap, Slang bull, crap: When I questioned my bank manager about the fee, he just gave me a lot of jargon.
JAUNTY|16|adj. 1 spirited, lively, high-spirited, buoyant, brisk, frisky, sprightly, free (and easy), blithe, jovial, happy, jubilant, jolly, merry, cheerful, gay: It is heartening to see those pensioners in such a jaunty mood. 2 chic, smart, stylish, dashing, debonair, elegant, colourful, spruce, flashy, flash, showy, flamboyant, Colloq sporty, natty: Tipping his hat at a jaunty angle, the old boulevardier strolled off, twirling his walking-stick.
JIGGLE|11|v. 1 jog, joggle, jig, shake, agitate, wiggle, wriggle, jerk: It's odd to see grown people jiggling about on the dance floor like that. Jiggle the key up and down - maybe then you can turn it. --n. 2 jog, joggle, jig, shake, wiggle, jerk: I gave the line a few jiggles, hoping to attract a fish.
JINGLE|10|v. 1 tinkle, ring, tintinnabulate, clink, chink, chime: She wore a dozen bracelets, which jingled when she walked. --n. 2 tinkle, tinkling, ring, ringing, tintinnabulation, clink, clinking, chink, chinking, chime, chiming: I like to feel the jingle of change in my pocket. 3 tune, ditty, melody, song, rhyme, verse, doggerel: The only thing he ever wrote was a jingle for a dog-food commercial.
JOYFUL|19|adj. 1 cheerful, happy, buoyant, gleeful, merry, jovial, jolly, jocund, joyous, jubilant, gay, light-hearted, blithe, blithesome, sunny: We are delighted that you have all come to help us celebrate this joyful occasion. 2 glad, pleased, gratified, delighted, happy, elated, ecstatic, exhilarated, exultant, overjoyed, jubilant, in heaven, Brit in the seventh heaven, US in seventh heaven, Colloq on cloud nine, tickled (pink), Brit over the moon: Mark was joyful at the news that he was father of a boy.
JUGGLE|11|v. manipulate, tamper with, falsify, fix, rig, distort, misstate, misrepresent, alter, arrange, Colloq doctor, cook: The accountant refused a bribe to juggle the company's books.
JUMBLE|12|v. 1 disorder, mix (up), mingle, confuse, confound, muddle, shuffle, disarrange, disorganize, tangle, entangle: I found my belongings all jumbled together. --n. 2 muddle, tangle, medley, mess; disorder, confusion, disarray, chaos, clutter: My clothes were in a jumble on the bed.
JUNIOR|13|adj. secondary, lesser, lower, minor, subordinate, inferior; younger: Thompson has been offered a junior partnership in his firm.
KEEPER|10|n. custodian, guardian, guard, warden, caretaker; warder, nurse, attendant, Brit minder: The keepers are very strict about not letting people feed the animals. How come they let you out without your keeper?
KERNEL|10|n. 1 grain, seed, pip, stone; nut, meat, US nut-meat: Try to extract the walnut kernel without breaking it. 2 centre, core, nucleus, heart, essence, quintessence, substance, gist, pith, nub, quiddity: Let's get down to the kernel of the problem.
KILLER|8|n. 1 murderer, assassin, slayer, cutthroat, butcher, exterminator, Bluebeard, (Jack the) ripper, Slang US torpedo, hit man, triggerman, gunsel, hooligan, gunfighter, iceman, hatchet man: What are the statistics on the number of killers who are not caught? 2 Slang old-fashioned bee's knees, US humdinger, doozy, killer-diller (from Manila), lallapalooza or lollapalooza, lulu, daisy, dilly: The new show at the Odeon is a killer.
KINDLE|11|v. ignite, light, set alight, set fire to, set afire, inflame, fire, foment, incite, instigate, provoke, prompt, prick, goad, spur, whip up, stir (up), work up, excite, agitate, shake up, jolt, arouse, rouse, (a)waken, inspire, inspirit, stimulate, animate, enliven, energize, innervate, galvanize: Kindling a fire in the rain is not easy. The wholesale pillaging kindled a feeling of deep resentment among the native population.
KOWTOW|16|v. Often, kowtow to. genuflect (before), salaam (to), prostrate oneself (before), bow (down) (to or before), pay court to, scrape before, cringe before, fawn (before), grovel (before), toady ((up) to), pander to, truckle ((up) to), dance attendance on, Colloq butter up, Slang suck up to, play up to, shine up to, Taboo slang US brown-nose: He kowtows to anyone who he thinks may be of use to him.
LABOUR|8|n. 1 toil, (hard) work, travail, exertion, effort, laboriousness, strain, drudgery, pains, industry, slavery, donkey-work, Colloq sweat, grind, elbow-grease, Brit swot: They know the labour involved in building a road. 2 employees, workers, wage-earners, labourers: A meeting between labour and management is scheduled for today. 3 effort, task, job, chore, undertaking: Raising funds for the museum was a labour of love. 4 travail, childbirth, parturition, labour pains, contractions, delivery: She went into labour at midnight, and the twins were born just after four. --v. 5 work, toil, travail, drudge, strain, strive, struggle, slave, Colloq sweat, grind, Brit peg away (at), swot: We laboured hard to get where we are today. 6 dwell on, overdo, overemphasize, harp on, overstress, strain, Colloq belabour: I heard you the first time, so don't labour the point. 7 labour under. be burdened or troubled or distressed by, be deluded or deceived by, be disadvantaged by, suffer, endure: He is labouring under a misapprehension. She labours under the impression that she will not be affected by a lack of education.
LAMENT|8|v. 1 mourn, bemoan, bewail, wail, weep (over), grieve (for or over), keen (over), sorrow (for or over): A year later, and she is still lamenting the death of her hamster?! --n. 2 lamentation, moaning, mourning; keen, dirge, elegy, knell, Requiem, monody, threnody, thanatopsis, epicedium, Scots and Irish coronach: Laments for Kitty's late husband were heard throughout the village.
LATELY|9|adv. See late, 5.
LATEST|6|adj. 1 See last°, 2. 2 fashionable, current, modern, up to the minute, Colloq in: She drives the latest model. --n. 3 most recent or up-to-date or modern development or news or example: What's the latest? Have you seen the latest in scuba gear?
LATHER|4|n. 1 suds, froth, foam: He spread lather on his face and began to shave. 2 sweat; dither, fuss, pother, flutter, Colloq tizzy, state, flap: He got into a real lather when he missed the train. --v. 3 soap (up); foam, froth: The barber lathered my chin thoroughly. 4 thrash, beat, belabour, maul, drub, flog, whack, pummel, buffet, whip, flail, lash: If he dared to swear, his father would lather him.
LAUNCH|4|v. 1 start (off), set in motion, set or get going, begin, embark upon or on, initiate, inaugurate: The council is about to launch a scheme for dockside development. The attack was launched at dawn. 2 originate, establish, organize, set up, found, open, start: Robson is talking about launching a new company. 3 shoot, fire, discharge, hurl, throw, sling, pitch, fling, catapult, send, dispatch or despatch: The enemy launched ground-to-air missiles against our planes. 4 float, set afloat: Two frigates will be launched today. --n. 5 inauguration, start, initiation, opening: The launch of the offensive is scheduled for noon tomorrow. 6 boat, skiff, tender, motor boat, runabout, gig, dinghy: The launch will shuttle passengers between the pier and the cruise ship.
LAVISH|7|adj. 1 profuse, abundant, liberal, copious, plentiful, prolific, opulent: He wore a silk tunic with lavish gold embroidery. 2 generous, liberal, open-handed, unstinting, bountiful, unsparing, unselfish, effusive, free: She showered the most lavish gifts on her children. 3 extravagant, wasteful, exaggerated, prodigal, improvident, excessive, unreasonable, immoderate, profligate, uncurbed, unrestrained, intemperate: The council was accused of lavish overspending on the civic centre. --v. 4 squander, waste, throw away, dissipate, spend, expend, sink: We lavished a fortune on the gardens. 5 shower, bestow, thrust, heap, pour: Granny always lavished gifts on us.
LAWFUL|12|adj. 1 legal, licit, legitimate, de jure, constitutional, just, rightful, valid, proper: I am the lawful heir. 2 permissible, allowable, justifiable, authorized, allowed, permitted: It is not lawful to let your dog foul the footpath.
LEADEN|7|adj. 1 heavy, onerous, ponderous, dense, burdensome: Exhausted, he dragged his leaden feet to the next meeting. 2 heavy, dull, numbing, oppressive: I was happy to escape the leaden atmosphere of the theatre. 3 grey, dull, dingy, gloomy, glowering, lowering, dreary, dismal, oppressive, dark, sullen, sombre: The leaden sky seemed to forebode disaster as he fled across the moor. 4 inert, lifeless, listless, sluggish, inanimate, inactive, lethargic, languid, languorous, torpid, spiritless, stagnant, static, dormant, soporific, sleepy: The refugees trudged along at a leaden pace.
LEADER|7|n. 1 chief, head, commander, ruler, superior, director, chairman, chairwoman, chairlady, chairperson, chieftain, captain, commandant, principal, Colloq boss, bossman, kingpin, big cheese, number one, numero uno, Brit gaffer, Chiefly US Mr Big, Slang US the man: The police can identify the leader of the gang. The leader of the assembly is elected for a year. 2 bandmaster, band leader, director, US and Canadian conductor, bandleader, concert-master: The leader tapped his baton for silence.
LEAGUE|7|n. 1 confederation, association, alliance, combination, coalition, federation, confederacy, guild, society, fraternity, union, band, fellowship, club: The teams in the south favour forming a football league of their own. 2 in league (with). allied (with), united (with), associated (with), leagued (with), federated (with), collaborating (with), conspiring (with), in collusion (with), Colloq in cahoots (with): The suspects are said to be in league with saboteurs. --v. 3 ally, unite, associate, band, combine, collaborate, join (forces), conspire, collude: Did most people league with the rebels or the official government?
LEEWAY|10|n. space, elbow-room, room, play, scope, slack, latitude, wide berth; freedom: We allowed him some leeway to make changes in the manuscript.
LEGEND|8|n. 1 epic, saga, myth, story, (folk) tale, romance, narrative, fable, tradition, fiction, Scandinavian Edda: There are scores of legends woven into the cultural fabric of our lives. 2 celebrity, phenomenon, tradition, wonder, luminary, personage, somebody: Someone said that Rudolph had become a legend in his own mind. 3 key, table of symbols, code, explanatory note: Refer to the legend for explanations of symbols used in the map. 4 motto, slogan, inscription, caption, title: The legend reads, 'Dieu et mon droit'.
LENGTH|5|n. 1 extent, measure, span, reach, size, magnitude, dimension, measurement: What is the length of a piece of string? The pool is 25 metres in length and 15 metres in width. 2 duration, stretch, term, period, space: What length of time did he spend in prison? 3 at full length. fully, completely, to the fullest extent: They were stretched out at full length on the floor. 4 at length. a finally, at (long) last, eventually, after a (long) time or while, ultimately; in the long run: At length, the doctor emerged from his office. b for a long time, interminably, for ages: He read to her at length, till she dozed off. c in depth, thoroughly, completely, exhaustively, extensively, to the fullest or greatest extent, in detail: I haven't the time to go into the story at length just now.
LESSON|4|n. 1 exercise, drill, reading, lecture, recitation; assignment, homework, task: The pupils are having an English lesson at the moment. You must finish your lessons before you can go out and play. 2 class, session; instruction, teaching, tutoring, schooling; practice: I take piano lessons on Tuesday afternoons. 3 example, exemplar, model, guide, maxim, paragon, message, deterrent, discouragement; warning, admonition; moral, precept: Norman's punishment should be a lesson to you. 4 punishment, chastisement, chastening, castigation, scolding, chiding, rebuke, reprimand, reproof: If she does that again, I'll give her a lesson she won't forget in a hurry!
LETTER|4|n. 1 character, symbol, sign: Epsilon is a letter in the Greek alphabet. 2 missive, epistle, communication, note, line, message, dispatch or despatch; correspondence: Write me a letter when you get there. 3 letters. literature, the humanities, belles-lettres, the classics; erudition, culture, the world of letters, learning, scholarship: He is a widely known man of letters. 4 to the letter. precisely, literally, exactly, accurately, strictly, sic, thus, letter for letter, literatim, word for word, verbatim: The document has been copied to the letter. --v. 5 inscribe, write, spell (out): She carefully lettered the caption under the picture.
LEVITY|12|n. light-heartedness, lightness, frivolity, frivolousness, flippancy, trivialization, triviality, facetiousness: Politics is a weighty business and should not be treated with levity.
LIABLE|3|adj. 1 likely, apt, prone, inclined, disposed: She is liable to want payment for her contribution. 2 answerable, responsible, accountable, obligated, blameable, blameworthy, Law actionable: An owner is liable for damage done by his dog. 3 exposed, susceptible, vulnerable, open, subject: Certain kinds of plants are more liable to disease.
LIKELY|13|adj. 1 probable, liable, expected: Three o'clock is the likely arrival time. 2 probable, conceivable, reasonable, credible, plausible, tenable: It seemed likely that Holmes would solve the case. 3 fitting, able, suitable, probable, seemly, meet, right, proper, qualified, acceptable, appropriate, apposite; favourite, odds-on, favoured, promising: Peters is the likely man for the job. 4 disposed to, apt to, inclined to, liable to: It's likely to rain. You're likely to think me mad, but I have my reasons for going. --adv. 5 probably, undoubtedly, indubitably, no doubt, in all probability, Colloq like as not: You would most likely say that I am wrong. He will very likely win the election.
LIKING|7|n. 1 affinity, fondness, affection, love, partiality, bias, preference, bent, predilection, predisposition, inclination, appreciation, penchant; eye, appetite, soft spot, weakness: He has a liking for good claret and beautiful women. 2 taste, pleasure, fancy, preference: The chef will prepare the steak to your liking.
LINGER|3|v. 1 Sometimes, linger on. stay (behind), remain, tarry, loiter, persist, hang on, endure, persevere, survive, Colloq hang or stick about or around: The smell of tobacco lingered for hours after he had gone. He lingered on for a day, then died from his wounds. 2 pause, dawdle, dally, lag, idle: She lingered for a moment at the jeweller's window. 3 Often, linger on or over. dwell on, elaborate, harp on, labour: I shall not linger over the details of the crime. 4 procrastinate, dither, shilly-shally, temporize: You must stop lingering and decide today.
LIQUID|5|n. 1 fluid, liquor, juice, solution: Mixing these two liquids could be dangerous. --adj. 2 fluid, flowing, running, runny, fluent, liquefied, watery, molten, melted: Her hair was the colour of liquid gold. 3 bright, shining, brilliant, clear, transparent, translucent, limpid: The surface of the lake gleamed like liquid sunshine. 4 convertible; solvent, profitable: Government bonds are regarded as liquid assets. The company remains liquid despite losses.
LIQUOR|4|n. 1 spirits, alcohol, (strong) drink, intoxicants, John Barleycorn, schnapps, whisky or US and Irish whiskey, demon rum, moonshine, US white lightning, white mule; Colloq booze, pick-me-up, hard stuff, fire-water, juice, mother's ruin (= 'gin'), US Kickapoo mountain joy juice; Slang rot-gut, Chiefly US and Canadian hooch or hootch, US sauce, red-eye, mountain dew: I don't drink liquor, but I will have some tea. 2 liquid, fluid, extract, broth, stock, distillate, concentrate, infusion: After poaching the fish, pour off the liquor and save it.
LISTEN|6|v. 1 hear, pay attention (to), attend, lend an ear (to), prick up one's ears, keep one's ears open, Archaic hark (to), hearken or US also harken (to): I was listening to the radio when you phoned. 2 obey, heed, mind, pay attention (to), do as one is told: You wouldn't be in this trouble if you'd listened to me.
LITANY|9|n. 1 prayer, invocation, supplication, petition: The monks trudged through the streets, chanting their litany. 2 recitation, recital, enumeration, listing, list, cataloguing, catalogue, inventorying, inventory: We had to sit through an interminable litany of the names of contributors to the fund.
LITTER|4|n. 1 rubbish, debris, refuse, fragments, odds and ends, US and Canadian trash, Colloq junk: The room was strewn with food wrappers, cigarette butts, and other litter. 2 brood, issue, offspring, young: Note the differences in the young of the same litter. 3 stretcher, palanquin or palankeen, sedan chair: The potentate was borne in on a litter carried by four huge Nubians. --v. 4 clutter, strew, scatter: The streets were littered with bricks and broken glass.
LITTLE|4|adj. 1 small, short, slight, tiny, minute, diminutive, miniature, mini, baby, doll-sized, undersized, dwarf, midget, pygmy, elfin, toy, bantam, petite, wee, infinitesimal, minuscule, Lilliputian, teeny, teeny-weeny, teensy-weensy, itty-bitty, itsy-bitsy, microscopic: I live in a little house. A little red-faced man suddenly appeared. They sat drinking coffee out of little white cups. 2 young, small, youthful: You are asking a lot from a little boy. 3 small, sparse, skimpy, meagre, scant, insufficient, inadequate, not enough, scanty, barely or hardly any: A little crowd gathered round us. You will get little help from her. There's too little milk for us to make custard. 4 short, brief: We had only a little time together before he was sent overseas. 5 trifling, trivial, small, minor, petty, paltry, insignificant, inconsiderable, unimportant, inconsequential, negligible: He seemed to consider my safety of little importance. He does a little business on the side. You are too concerned about little things. 6 small(-minded), petty, picayune, mean, ungenerous, illiberal, cheap, narrow(-minded), unimaginative, shallow: What is going on in his cunning little brain? --adv. 7 seldom, rarely, hardly ever, scarcely: I travel very little these days. 8 (but or only) slightly, barely, hardly, scarcely, no, not any, not much: She arrived with little more than what she was wearing. 9 scarcely, hardly: Little does he care whether he wins his wager. --pron. 10 bit, dab, dollop, particle, spoonful, taste, thimbleful, speck, spot, scrap, crumb, particle, Colloq smidgen or smidgin: If you could spare me a little of your time, I'd be grateful.
LIVELY|12|adj. 1 full of life, vigorous, energetic, vivacious, spirited, brisk, spry, active, animated, frisky, sprightly, agile, nimble, perky, chirpy, bouncy, buoyant, gay, cheery, cheerful, Colloq chipper, full of pep, peppy: His speech sparked off a lively discussion. The carriage was drawn by a pair of lively horses. 2 strong, intense, vivid, keen, pointed, eager, energetic, active: She takes a lively interest in current affairs. 3 active, busy, bustling, stirring, eventful, swarming, teeming; astir, alive: We joined the lively crowd at the antiques fair. The streets near the square were lively with people rushing to and fro. 4 vivid, bright, gay, cheerful, glowing, brilliant, gorgeous, rich: Some lively colours in the upholstery and curtains would brighten up the sitting-room.
LOADED|8|adj. 1 overloaded, overwhelmed, burdened, laden, weighted (down), filled (up), chock-full, chock-a-block, stuffed, jammed, packed, crowded, brimming, brim-full, crammed: A fully loaded lorry has overturned near exit 5. The train was loaded with commuters. 2 charged, primed, ready: Be careful - the gun is loaded. 3 charged, tricky, manipulative, insidious, prejudiced, prejudicial, trap, devious: 'When did you stop beating your wife?' is what anybody would call a loaded question. 4 rich, wealthy, affluent, moneyed, well-to-do, well off, Colloq flush, well-heeled , US in the chips, Slang rolling in it: I hear that her new husband is really loaded. 5 drunk: He was loaded before he even went to the party.
LOAFER|9|n. idler, layabout, wastrel, shirker, flçneur, ne'er-do-well, tramp, vagrant, Old-fashioned lounge lizard, slugabed, Colloq lazybones, Brit drone, US bum, (ski or tennis or surf) bum, Slang Brit skiver, Military scrimshanker, US military gold brick or gold-bricker, Taboo slang US fuck-off: Why did she marry that good-for-nothing loafer?
LOCALE|8|n. site, location, spot, place, setting, venue, neighbourhood, situation, locality: We moved the locale of the film to Spain.
LOCATE|8|v. 1 situate, place, site, position, set (up), fix, pinpoint, establish, settle, base: Where is your office located? We located our warehouse close to the railway. 2 find, come across, discover, unearth, lay or put or get one's hand(s) or finger(s) on, chance or hit upon, turn up, track down: Where can I locate a good piano player?
LONELY|9|adj. 1 single, solitary, sole, lone, one; unaccompanied, alone: The lonely survivor of the crash struggled out of the jungle. She walked for miles, lonely and desolate. 2 desolate, uninhabited, deserted, barren: Robinson Crusoe's world was a lonely place. 3 friendless, lonesome, abandoned, outcast, forsaken; solo, hermit-like, eremitic(al), reclusive, secluded, retiring, withdrawn, unsocial: He felt lonely in the strange city. She leads a lonely existence with only her cat for company.
LOOSEN|4|v. 1 loose; undo, unfasten, unhook, unbutton, unlace, untie, unbind, unbuckle; unscrew: Quick! Loosen his collar! 2 weaken, detach, separate, sever, break or cut (apart): The vibration has loosened the rivets.
LOTION|6|n. cream, liniment, balm, salve, ointment, embrocation, unguent, pomade: The doctor said to rub in some of this lotion twice a day.
LOUNGE|7|v. 1 idle, loaf, laze, loll, languish, vegetate: After dinner, we lounged till midnight, sipping port. --n. 2 sitting-room, salon, front room, parlour: Mother insisted that we entertain visitors in the lounge. 3 lobby, foyer, waiting-room, reception (room), vestibule: I was waiting in the lounge when the doctor returned. 4 cocktail lounge, (lounge or saloon) bar: We went into the lounge and ordered a drink. 5 sofa, couch, divan, studio couch, day-bed, settee, settle, love-seat, chaise longue; causeuse, téte-å-téte; US and Canadian Davenport: The psychoanalyst has a lounge on which you lie while talking to him.
LOVELY|12|adj. 1 good-looking, pretty, handsome, attractive, comely, fair, fetching, engaging, captivating, alluring, enticing, bewitching, ravishing, gorgeous, beautiful, beauteous, pulchritudinous: Larry has two lovely daughters. The house has a lovely view of Lake Windermere. 2 satisfying, satisfactory, agreeable, enjoyable, gratifying, nice, pleasing, pleasant, pleasurable, engaging, delightful: What a lovely way to spend an evening!
LUMBER|10|n. 1 odds and ends, junk, clutter, jumble, rejects, white elephants; rubbish, litter, Chiefly US trash: The small room off the kitchen is for lumber. 2 timber, wood, beams, planks, boards, wood: I have ordered the lumber for building the garage. --v. 3 encumber, burden, load, overload, saddle, impose upon, land: We have been lumbered with looking after our neighbours' six cats.
LUNACY|11|n. 1 madness, insanity, dementia, craziness, derangement, psychosis, mania: Formerly, it was believed that lunacy fluctuated in accordance with the phases of the moon. 2 folly, foolishness, bad or poor judgement, illogicality, illogic, senselessness, ridiculousness, irrationality, foolhardiness, stupidity: It would be sheer lunacy to confess to something you did not do.
LUSTRE|6|n. 1 sheen, gleam, glow, gloss, luminosity, luminousness, radiance: A good waxing should restore the lustre to the table. 2 glory, renown, brilliance, celebrity, honour, distinction, fame, illustriousness: Winning first prize lent a little lustre to his tarnished reputation.
LUXURY|16|n. 1 opulence, splendour, sumptuousness, grandeur, extravagance, magnificence, richness, luxuriousness: I cannot describe the overwhelming luxury of the maharaja's palace. 2 indulgence, self-indulgence, hedonism, sybaritism, voluptuousness: He had been living a life of luxury in Tahiti. 3 security, confidence; gratification, satisfaction, enjoyment, pleasure, delight, comfort: He has the luxury of knowing that his dog will be well looked after. 4 frill, extravagance, extra, indulgence, non-essential, expendable, treat: He showered her with luxuries from the finest shops.
MADDEN|6|v. 1 infuriate, anger, enrage, incense, provoke, inflame, excite (someone) to (a) frenzy or rage, make (someone's) blood boil, raise (someone's) hackles, make (someone) see red, get (someone's) back up, drive someone crazy, Literary raise (someone's) ire, Colloq drive (someone) up the wall, Brit drive (someone) round the bend or twist, US tick (someone) off, burn (someone) up, tee (someone) off, bug, drive (someone) up the wall: Their getting away with something like that maddened us all. 2 irk, vex, pique, exasperate, irritate: He has the maddening habit of affecting a lisp. 3 bait, badger, torment, plague, bedevil, US rile, hassle: The dog was maddened into attacking anything that moved.
MADMAN|11|n. madwoman; lunatic, psychopath, psychotic, maniac, Colloq crackpot, psycho, loony, screwball, US kook, Slang nut, nutcase, Brit nutter: I am working like a madman to finish the book by the deadline.
MAINLY|11|adv. in the main, chiefly, principally, predominantly, generally, above all, on the whole, in general, mostly, most of all, effectively, essentially, at bottom, first and foremost, for the most part, largely, by and large, primarily,as a rule, usually, all in all, on balance, for all practical purposes, in the long run: We are concerned mainly with safety. The tourists are mainly from Italy.
MAKEUP|14|n. 1 cosmetics, maquillage, greasepaint, Colloq warpaint: Do you think I am wearing too much make-up? 2 constitution, character, cast, disposition, personality: There is not an ounce of sympathy in Janet's make-up. 3 constitution, arrangement, construction, composition, format, configuration, build, form: What is the chemical make-up of the plastic?
MANAGE|9|v. 1 handle, administer, run, supervise, look after, watch over, direct, head, oversee, superintend, direct, preside over, be in charge (of), take care of, control; rule (over), govern, regulate: Mr Grant manages the glove department. 2 handle, cope or deal with, control, govern, manipulate: Will you be able to manage such a frisky horse? 3 conduct, carry on, carry out, bring off, control, undertake, take care of, look after, handle: Is she old enough to manage her own affairs? 4 succeed, function, make do, make it, shift (for oneself), get along or by or on, make out, muddle through, survive: Will you be able to manage from here on?
MANGLE|9|v. destroy, mutilate, butcher, deform, disfigure, spoil, mar, ruin, wreck; cut, hack, lacerate, chop (up), crush, damage, cripple, maim: Don't you hate the way they mangle the English language? His hand was badly mangled in the accident.
MANIAC|10|n. 1 madman, madwoman, lunatic, psychopath, psychotic, Colloq crackpot, Slang nut, Brit nutter, loony, US kook: In former times, maniacs were scorned and maltreated. 2 fanatic, fan, enthusiast, zealot, Slang freak, fiend: Since his retirement, he has become a golf maniac.
MANNER|6|n. 1 way, mode, style, technique, procedure, method, fashion; means, approach: Her incisive manner of reporting is widely admired. 2 air, behaviour, mien, demeanour, bearing, deportment, comportment, conduct, attitude, aspect: His manner is overbearing and dictatorial. 3 manners. etiquette, decorum, (good) form, politeness, proprieties, protocol, politesse, civility, ceremony, social code, social graces, formalities, niceties, amenities, social conventions; behaviour, conduct: Can't you teach him some manners?
MANTLE|8|n. 1 cloak, cape, wrap, shawl, pelisse, pelerine: Over his armour he wore a mantle embroidered with his bearing. 2 covering, cover, sheet, veil, blanket, screen, cloak, shroud, pall, canopy, curtain: A mantle of snow lay on the ground. --v. 3 cover, clothe, envelop, surround, encircle, shroud, veil, screen, obscure, cloak, conceal, hide, mask, wrap, disguise: The mountains were brilliantly mantled and capped with snow.
MANUAL|8|n. handbook, vade-mecum, enchiridion; directions, instructions, guide: Follow the manual carefully to avoid mistakes.
MARGIN|9|n. 1 edge, border, perimeter, periphery; rim, lip, side, brink, verge: Leave a one-inch margin at the left side of the page. Trees grew at the margin of the pond. 2 limit(s), bound(s), boundary (line), border, frontier, line, partition line: These streets form the margin of the inner city. 3 allowance, play, leeway, latitude, scope, freedom, room, space; compass: These calculations do not provide much of a margin for error.
MARKED|13|adj. noticeable, conspicuous, decided, pronounced, considerable, remarkable, significant, signal, unmistakable or unmistakeable, prominent, obvious, patent, evident, apparent: There is a marked improvement in your work.
MAROON|6|v. abandon, cast away, desert, strand, forsake; isolate, seclude: They were marooned on a desert island.
MARVEL|11|v. 1 wonder (at), gape (at), be awed or amazed (by), be agog or astonished (at), gape (at): We marvelled at the way the homing pigeons found their way home. --n. 2 wonder, miracle, phenomenon: Tammy was a marvel at fixing electrical equipment.
MASTER|8|n. 1 owner, head, chief, leader, chieftain, commander, lord, governor, director, controller, employer, manager, overseer, supervisor, superintendent, taskmaster, slave-driver, principal, sovereign, monarch, ruler, Colloq lord high muck-a-muck, Pooh-Bah, kingpin, big fish, boss, skipper, Brit gaffer, US king-fish, the man, big fish, big boss, bossman; Slang US big cheese, big wheel, Mr Big, chief or head honcho: He is master of all he surveys. Decisions about punishment are referred to the master. 2 expert, authority, genius, craftsman, adept, maestro, mastermind, past master, old hand, virtuoso, ace, professional, Colloq pro, wizard, Chiefly Brit dab hand, US crackerjack; Slang US maven or mavin: He is a master in the art of chicanery. 3 teacher, tutor, instructor, guide, leader, guru, swami: She studied under the master for years. --adj. 4 adept, ingenious, expert, masterful, masterly, skilful, skilled, proficient: After twenty years, he became a master craftsman. 5 overall, controlling, principal, main, prime, basic, chief: Only the leader knows the master plan for conquering the planet. This is the master switch that turns off all the power. 6 main, biggest, principal, owner's: The master bedroom had a bathroom en suite. --v. 7 learn, grasp, become expert in, know inside out and backwards, know, understand: He claims to have mastered the art of levitation. 8 control, overcome, repress, suppress, subdue, bridle, check, quell, get the better of, Colloq get a grip on: You must learn to master your emotions.
MATURE|8|adj. 1 adult, grown (up), full-grown, fully grown, of age, fully fledged, full-fledged, fully developed, matured, experienced, knowledgeable, sophisticated: At twenty-two, she is mature enough to be on her own. 2 ripe, ready, ripened, mellow, aged,' seasoned: A good wine, like fruit, should not be consumed till it is mature. 3 complete, matured, perfect, perfected, polished, refined, ready, fully developed, consummated: Our plans are not yet mature. --v. 4 grow up, age, develop, come of age; Brit be one's age, US act one's age: Has he matured sufficiently to be trusted alone in the house for the weekend? I wish he'd mature a bit more. 5 ripen, mellow, age, season; maturate: Fruit that has matured on the plant tastes best. 6 develop, perfect, refine, polish, maturate, bring to fruition: Their plans for major changes in company structure have not yet fully matured.
MAYHEM|16|n. maihem, violence, havoc, destruction, disorder, devastation, chaos; fracas, commotion, confusion: Someone screamed 'Fire!', and the ensuing mayhem was unbelievable.
MEADOW|12|n. field, meadow-land, pasture, pasture land, Archaic or literary lea, mead: The entire meadow was dotted with little puffy clouds of white sheep.
MEAGRE|9|adj. 1 scanty, scant, poor, paltry, inadequate, skimpy, scrimpy, sparse, spare, insufficient, bare, puny, piddling, trifling, pathetic, exiguous, Colloq measly: Angela scraped out a meagre living as a shop assistant. The meagre supplies wouldn't last another day. 2 spare, skinny, scrawny, bony, emaciated, gaunt, thin, lean, bare-boned, (half-)starved, underfed, undernourished, starving: The meagre faces of the survivors told of their ordeal. 3 spare, plain, bare-boned, unadorned, unembellished, unelaborate, unelaborated, simple, simplified, oversimplified, bare, inadequate, deficient, undetailed, indefinite, non-specific, general, broad, loose, vague: The police have only a meagre description to go on. 4 unfruitful, infertile, barren, deficient, poor, unproductive: This land is too meagre to provide the people with a living.
MEASLY|11|adj. sparse, scant, scanty, meagre, paltry, pathetic, skimpy, puny, piddling, miserly, niggardly, miserable, beggarly, stingy, Colloq Brit mingy: 'Nouvelle cuisine' is the name given to a restaurateur's design to serve decorative, but measly, portions.
MEDDLE|6|v. interfere, intrude, butt in, pry, intervene, interlope, tamper, snoop, Rare intermeddle, Colloq stick or poke one's nose in, have a or one's finger in the pie, kibitz: Why are you always meddling in things that don't concern you?
MEDIUM|11|adj. 1 average, middle, mid, medial, median, normal, standard, usual, everyday, ordinary; mid-sized: His wife has an estate car of medium size - nothing extravagant. 2 See mediocre, above. --n. 3 average, middle, mid-point, compromise, centre, mean, norm, mediocrity: Instead of going to extremes, try for the happy medium. 4 atmosphere, environment, ambience or ambiance, milieu: The air serves as a medium of sound. The light is refracted as it passes into a denser medium. 5 means, method, mode, approach, instrumentality, device, mechanism, intermediation, technique, contrivance, agency, expedient, way, course, route, road, avenue, channel, conveyance, vehicle: Latin and Greek were the media of the scholarship, the science, and the theology of the Middle Ages. Television is a powerful advertising medium.
MEDLEY|12|n. mixture, assortment, combination, miscellany, m÷lange, collection, conglomeration, agglomeration, hotchpotch or US and Canadian hodgepodge, olio, blend, gallimaufry, omnium gatherum, pastiche, pot-pourri, salmagundi, olla podrida, mishmash, jumble, mess, farrago, stew, goulash, Colloq mixed bag: The programme consisted of a medley of show tunes.
MELLOW|9|adj. 1 soft, juicy, luscious, delicious, rich, sweet, flavourful, full-flavoured, ready, ripe, mature, ripened, aged: She set before us a dish of mellow peaches. Amontillado sherry is noted for its mellow taste. 2 musical, melodious, full, pure, rich, sweet, dulcet, mellifluous, euphonious, vibrant: Her voice was low, mellow, and suggestive. 3 soft, softened, subtle, muted, pastel: The mellow shades of this painting would fit well into the d÷cor. 4 easygoing, genial, gentle, good-natured, easy, cordial, friendly, warm, amiable, agreeable, pleasant, cheerful, happy, jovial, felicitous: Patrick seems to have become more mellow with age. --v. 5 mature, ripen, age, season, sweeten, develop, improve (with age), soften: Frank has mellowed since taking up golf.
MELODY|12|n. 1 song, tune, air, strain, measure, theme, refrain: Isn't that the melody from Mimi's aria in La Bohëme ? 2 tunefulness, melodiousness, euphoniousness, euphony, harmony, musicality, sweetness: The older music seems to be marked by so much more melody than rock 'n' roll.
MEMBER|12|n. colleague, associate, fellow: I am going to propose Fred as a member of the club.
MEMOIR|10|n. 1 account, report, reportage, narrative, essay, dissertation, disquisition, paper, journal, record, biography, life: They found her memoir about life in the jungle very exciting. 2 memoirs. autobiography, reminiscences, recollections, memories, diary, confessions, letters, life story; annals, history, account(s), record(s), chronology: She was reading the memoirs of Henry Kissinger.
MEMORY|13|n. 1 recall, recollection, retention: My memory of the incident is very vivid. She has a poor memory for faces. 2 recollection, reminiscence, thought: The interviewer was drawing on grandfather's memories of the 1920s. 3 remembrance, honour, homage, respect, tribute, celebration: He wrote a sequence of poems in memory of a dear friend.
MENACE|10|v. 1 threaten, intimidate, daunt, terrorize, terrify, cow, bully, frighten, scare, alarm: The loan sharks menaced him when he refused to pay. --n. 2 threat, danger, peril, hazard, risk: The sunken wreck is a menace to navigation. 3 intimidation, scare, threat, warning, commination: According to law, a menace alone does not constitute an injury.
MENIAL|8|adj. 1 lowly, servile, humble, subservient, base, low, mean, slavish, demeaning, degrading, ignoble; routine, unskilled: He took a number of menial jobs to pay for his daughter's wedding. 2 servile, fawning, grovelling, toadying, sycophantic, obsequious, cringing, time-serving, flattering, snivelling, Colloq boot-licking, Taboo slang brown-nosing: His insecurity makes him surround himself with menial hangers-on. --n. 3 lackey, flunkey, serf, slave, underling, minion, Brit fag, Colloq Brit dogsbody, skivvy, US gofer: He works as one of the menials in the hotel kitchen. 4 toady, sycophant, yes-man, lickspittle, leech, parasite, time-server, Colloq bootlicker, Taboo slang brown-nose(r): The film star was attended by a retinue of menials, all anxious to keep in her favour.
MENTAL|8|adj. 1 intellectual, cognitive, cerebral, perceptual, rational, conceptual, theoretical, noetic, abstract: The boy staggered us with his ability to perform rapid mental arithmetical calculations. 2 lunatic, mad, crazy, psychotic, demented, mentally ill, unstable, unbalanced, deranged, disturbed, daft, certifiable, Slang off one's rocker, nutty, batty, balmy or barmy, loony, screwy, bonkers, crackers, nuts, bananas, loco: My great-aunt has gone a bit mental in her old age.
MERELY|11|adv. 1 only, simply; basically, purely, essentially, fundamentally, at bottom: I was merely going to ask if you'd like to go to the cinema. 2 only, no more than; barely, scarcely, simply, solely, entirely: She was merely the scullery-maid. We can't unlock the safe merely on your authority.
MERGER|9|n. combination, coalescence, union, merging, amalgamation, consolidation, coalition, pooling, blending, mixing, mingling, commingling, fusing, fusion: A merger of the two firms might result in a monopoly.
METHOD|7|n. 1 way, means, procedure, approach, route, avenue, road, mode, manner, technique, process, routine, modus operandi; plan, scheme, programme, course, routine, practice, pattern, system, methodology; Colloq US M.O.: What method was used to arrive at the answer? 2 arrangement, order, system, structure, organization, design, pattern, orderliness, neatness, regularity, discipline: There is a discernible, underlying method to what seems superficially chaotic.
MIDDAY|9|n. noon, noontime, twelve (o'clock) noon, US high noon: By midday, the temperature had reached 34Û Celsius.
MIDDLE|6|adj. 1 central, centre, halfway, mid, midway, mean, medial, Technical mesial: We had reached the middle stage of our journey. Her index finger and middle finger are almost exactly the same length. --n. 2 centre, mid-point, midst, halfway point; heart, bull's-eye: He lives in the middle of the city. The arrow found the very middle of the target. 3 midriff, waist, mid-section, stomach: She wore a red sash round her middle.
MIGHTY|8|adj. 1 powerful, strong, potent, influential, dominant, predominant, ascendant, weighty, doughty, authoritarian, autocratic, indomitable: The pen is mightier than the sword. He should have thought twice before challenging such a mighty opponent. 2 strong, muscular, powerful, robust, strapping, sturdy, brawny, burly, well-built, able-bodied, hardy, Colloq husky, hefty: The smith a mighty man was he, With large and sinewy hands. 3 big, large, huge, grand, great, enormous, gigantic, tremendous, towering, monumental, prodigious, massive, bulky: The giant plucked a mighty tree from the earth and flung it across the sea. --adv. 4 very, extremely: It was mighty nice of you to visit me here in the Ozarks.
MILIEU|8|n. environment, climate, surroundings, environs, background, ambience or ambiance, sphere, setting, atmosphere, medium, element, precincts: The British Library was the perfect milieu in which to pursue his research and writing.
MINDER|9|n. 1 child-minder, babysitter, sitter, nanny, nurse, governess: The minder will put the children to bed. 2 bodyguard, escort, protector: Arthur hired an ex-fighter as his minder.
MINGLE|5|v. 1 mix, blend, intermingle, commingle, intermix, combine, amalgamate, merge, compound, marry, join, unite: The stories cleverly mingle gravity and levity, the mundane and the magical. There was loud applause, mingled with a few chuckles and gasps. 2 mix, socialize, associate, join, circulate, fraternize, hobnob, consort, go, spend time, Colloq hang about or around or out, rub shoulders, Brit pal up, US pal around: I asked Fred to mingle with the guests and make them feel at home.
MINUTE|8|n. 1 instant, second, split second, flash, moment, before you can say 'Jack Robinson', blink or wink or twinkling of an eye, coup d'oeil, trice, Colloq one sec, two secs, bat of an eye, shake, jiffy, tick, Brit half a mo, two shakes (of a lamb's tail): I'll be with you in a minute. 2 minutes. log, record, journal, transcript, notes, summary, r÷sum÷, proceedings, transactions, memorandum: Have you the minutes of the last meeting? 3 up to the minute. latest, newest, modern, up to date, trendy, fashionable, smart, all the rage, in vogue, stylish, in style, in fashion, å la mode, Colloq in, with it, hep or hip, hot, cool, US now: She always wears the most up-to-the-minute clothes. --v. 4 record, transcribe, take down, write down, note, make (a) note of, document, log: We need someone to minute the meeting.
MIRROR|6|n. 1 looking-glass, glass, speculum, reflector: She stared at her reflection in the mirror, wondering whether she should grow her hair. 2 reflection, reproduction, picture, representation, replication, (mirror) image: Language is the mirror of society, reflecting every social change. --v. 3 reflect, reproduce, represent, depict, repeat, echo, send back: The calm lake mirrored the moonlight. The people's misery was mirrored in their faces.
MISERY|11|n. 1 unhappiness, distress, discomfort, wretchedness, woe, sadness, melancholy, sorrow, dolour, heartache, grief, anguish, anxiety, angst, depression, despair, desperation, desolation, despondency, gloom: Worn out by grief and misery, she collapsed into a chair. 2 squalor, poverty, destitution, privation, indigence, penury, wretchedness, sordidness: The misery of those slums is unbelievable. 3 hardship, suffering, calamity, disaster, curse, misfortune, ordeal, woe, trouble, catastrophe, trial, tribulation, adversity, burden, affliction: She cannot bear the twin miseries of illness and poverty. 4 spoilsport, damper, killjoy, dampener, Job's comforter, grouch, grump, malcontent, pessimist, cynic, prophet of doom, Cassandra, Colloq wet blanket, sourpuss, US party pooper, gloomy Gus, picklepuss: How can you stand living with such a misery?
MISFIT|11|n. oner, eccentric, individual, nonconformist, maverick, square peg in a round hole: People regard him as one of society's misfits and tend to steer clear.
MISHAP|8|n. See misfortune, 2, above.
MISLAY|11|v. misplace, lose, mislocate; misfile: I have mislaid my reading spectacles.
MISUSE|8|n. 1 misapplication, misusage, misappropriation, misemployment, diverting, diversion, perverting, perversion: He was accused of the misuse of public funds for his personal gain. 2 misusage, abuse, corruption, solecism, malapropism, barbarism, catachresis, ungrammaticality, infelicity: His misuses of English have made him a laughing-stock. 3 See mistreatment, above. --v. 4 abuse, misapply, misemploy, misappropriate; pervert: I broke the knife blade misusing it as a screwdriver. He was accused of misusing the courts to his own ends. 5 See mistreat, above.
MOBBED|7|adj. crowded, packed, thronged, congested, teeming, swarming, full, filled: They tried to leave by the emergency exit, but that was mobbed, too.
MOBILE|10|adj. 1 movable, non-stationary, unstationary, unfixed, travelling, portable, transportable: A mobile display was designed for industrial fairs. 2 motorized, mechanical, transportable, movable: They live in a mobile home. The mobile library comes round every Wednesday. 3 expressive, sensitive, animated, plastic, flexible, US facile: Her mobile face at once reflected her thoughts. 4 agile, versatile, nimble, quick, alert, active, responsive: You need your wits about you to keep up with Randolph's mobile mind. 5 ambulatory, ambulant: After the artificial joint surgery, Keith was once again completely mobile.
MODERN|9|adj. up to date, current, contemporary, today's, new, fresh, novel, brand-new, up to the minute, present-day, latest, new-fashioned, newfangled; å la mode, modish, in vogue, fashionable, in fashion, stylish, in style, chic, Chiefly Brit flavour of the month, Slang trendy, in, with it, mod, hip, hot: Elaine has little patience with modern electronic gadgets.
MODEST|9|adj. 1 unassuming, unpresuming, humble, unpretentious, unobtrusive, reserved, retiring, diffident, shy, bashful, demure, coy, shame-faced, self-effacing, self-conscious, reticent, reluctant, timid, meek, timorous, Rare verecund: Caroline is quite modest about her accomplishments. 2 humble, simple, plain, ordinary, unpretentious, homely, lowly, unexceptional, unostentatious; inconspicuous, unobtrusive: They live in a modest little cottage. 3 moderate, limited, understated, unimportunate, unexaggerated, reasonable, sensible, constrained, restricted, restrained: The workers' demands seem modest enough.
MODIFY|15|v. 1 adjust, adapt, change, transform, alter, revise, amend, redo, remake, remould, reshape, reconstruct, reform, revamp, refashion, remodel, rework, reword, reorient, reorganize: They are modifying the car to increase its performance. He should modify his views on censorship. 2 reduce, decrease, diminish, lessen, moderate, temper, soften, lower, abate, tone down, modulate; qualify, limit, restrict: The severity of the winter is modified by our proximity to the sea. We shall have to modify our demands.
MOLEST|8|v. 1 annoy, irritate, vex, disturb, pester, badger, needle, provoke, nettle, tease, harass, harry, worry, hector, irk, bother, gall, chafe, roil, torment, plague, beleaguer: For weeks people on the beach have been molested by green flies. 2 accost, meddle with, interfere with, annoy, abuse, bother, attack, ill-treat, maltreat, manhandle; paw: The police are looking for a man who has been molesting girls in the park.
MOMENT|10|n. 1 instant, second, minute, half a second, two seconds, flash, twinkling, blink or wink of an eye, twinkling of an eye, trice, Colloq jiffy, shake, two shakes (of a lamb's tail), before you can say 'Jack Robinson', Brit mo, half a mo, tick: I'll be with you in a moment, Madam. 2 instant, time, second, minute, hour, point (in time), juncture, stage: At that very moment, the phone rang. 3 importance, weight, consequence, significance, import, gravity, seriousness, prominence, concern, note, interest, consideration: What you decide to do is of no great moment.
MONKEY|15|n. 1 simian, ape, primate, Colloq monk: The monkeys' antics forever delight the children. 2 fool, ass, laughing-stock, butt, victim, target, (fair) game, Colloq goat, Slang sucker: The teacher should not have made a monkey out of Hubert in front of his classmates. 3 imp, devil, mischief-maker, rascal, scamp, rapscallion: She's a real little monkey: you wouldn't believe what she got up to this morning. --v. 4 mimic, mime, imitate, impersonate, copy, ape, duplicate: He monkeys everything you do. 5 Usually, monkey around or about (with). fool around (with), play (with), fiddle (about or around) with, meddle (with or in), interfere (with or in), mess (about or around) (with), tinker (with), tamper (with), Colloq US screw around (with): Stop monkeying around with that switch or the light will fuse. Colin is always monkeying around in class.
MORALE|8|n. dedication, spirit(s), unity, esprit de corps, disposition, attitude, confidence, self-confidence, self-esteem: The team's morale improved after they won their first game in five weeks.
MORASS|6|n. 1 bog, marsh, swamp, fen, quagmire, slough, marshland, moorland, No. Eng. and Scots moss: The land not under cultivation was morass or forest. 2 entanglement, confusion, muddle, mess, quagmire, tangle, quicksand: It took years to extricate the company from the legal morass of the bankruptcy courts.
MORBID|11|adj. 1 unhealthy, unwholesome, disordered, unsound, sick, pathological, pathogenic: Inhalation of fumes containing lead has caused this morbid condition. 2 grim, ghoulish, macabre, monstrous, ghastly, grotesque, grisly, gruesome: At an early age, Glynis exhibited a morbid interest in cadavers. Spare me the morbid details - please! 3 gloomy, lugubrious, glum, morose, sombre, blue, sad, melancholy, despondent, depressed, dejected, downcast: With Charley again in one of his morbid moods, we can anticipate another cheerless visit.
MORSEL|8|n. 1 mouthful, bite, gobbet, spoonful, forkful, chew, taste, sample, nibble, bit, drop, dollop, soupúon: She delicately ate tiny morsels of the banana. 2 bit, crumb, fragment, scrap, sliver, splinter, shard or sherd, shred, remnant, particle, atom, speck, whit, fraction, grain, granule, pinch, piece, Colloq smidgen or smidgin: There wasn't the slightest morsel of evidence to connect me with the crime.
MORTAL|8|adj. 1 human; transitory, temporal, transient, ephemeral: It finally dawned on him that the king was mortal, like other men. 2 physical, bodily, corporeal, corporal, fleshly, earthly, worldly, perishable: Her mortal remains are buried at Bognor Regis. 3 deadly, fatal, lethal, terminal, destructive, disastrous: The admiral lay dying from a mortal wound. 4 relentless, implacable, unrelenting, bitter, sworn, deadly, unremitting, unappeasable, unceasing: Halifax was the mortal enemy of despotism. 5 abject, extreme, awful, great, enormous, intense, terrible, inordinate, dire: Giles lived in mortal fear of offending his mother. --n. 6 human (being), man, woman, person, soul, individual, creature, earthling: The novel depicts a lifestyle far removed from that of ordinary mortals. We mortals have nothing to fear from intergalactic aliens.
MOTHER|6|n. 1 dam, materfamilias, (female) parent, Old-fashioned or formal or jocular mater, Formal progenitrix; matriarch, Colloq ma, old lady, old woman, Brit mummy, mum, US mom, mommy, mama, mamma, maw, mammy, mam: He runs crying to his mother whenever anyone teases him. 2 source, origin, genesis: Necessity is the mother of invention. 3 nourisher, nurturer, nurse: Poverty was the mother of anarchy. --adj. 4 native, natural, innate: She has the mother wit to know better. --v. 5 nurture, nourish, nurse, care for, look after, protect, shelter, watch over, take care of: She mothered me when I needed her, and I won't desert her now. 6 pamper, baby, coddle, spoil, indulge, fuss over, overprotect: You mother the child too much.
MOTION|8|n. 1 movement, moving, change, shift, shifting, action, going, travelling, travel, progress, passage, transit; activity, commotion, stir, agitation, turmoil, turbulence: One could barely sense the slow motion of the train. The leaves of the aspen appear to be in constant motion. 2 mobility, movability, motility: I could feel the motion gradually returning to my numbed limbs. 3 gait, bearing, carriage, tread, walk, step: The machine works with alternate upward and downward motions. 4 gesture, gesticulation, signal, sign: She made a motion for me to come nearer. 5 proposal, suggestion, proposition, recommendation, offering, submission: A motion must be seconded by a member in good standing. --v. 6 gesture, gesticulate, beckon, signal, sign, wave: The cashier motioned to me and I went over to the window.
MOTIVE|11|n. 1 inducement, incentive, motivation, stimulus, motivating force, stimulation, incitement, influence, cause, reason, rationale, grounds; attraction, lure, enticement, goad, spur, urge, prod: It is thought that jealousy was his motive for murder. 2 purpose, aim, intention, intent, object, objective, goal, end, arriëre pens÷e (= 'hidden motive'); ambition, desire; Colloq angle: I asked the chairman what his motive was in trying to expand the company. --adj. 3 driving, impelling, propelling, propulsive, moving, kinetic, activating, operative: The motive power used in the ultra-light aircraft is provided entirely by the pilot's pedalling.
MOULDY|12|adj. aged, ancient, outdated, old-fashioned, antediluvian, unused, stale, decayed, decaying, carious, mildewed, mouldering, musty; spoilt or spoiled, rotten, rotting, putrid, putrescent, putrefying, rancid, rank, decomposed, decomposing, mucid: Digging about in the files, he unearthed some mouldy old plans of the house. All the food in the fridge had gone mouldy while they were away.
MOVING|8|adj. 1 touching, poignant, emotive, affecting, stirring, heart-rending, emotional, telling, effective, impressive, striking, compelling; pathetic, exciting, thrilling, inspiring, inspirational, impelling, persuasive: He related a moving story of his years in various concentration camps. 2 active, mobile, unfixed, unstationary, motile, going, operating, working, in motion, on the move: Be careful not to touch any of the moving parts inside the clock.
MUDDLE|6|v. 1 bewilder, confuse, confound, mystify, baffle, mix up, disorient, befuddle, perplex, bemuse, puzzle, befog: I am totally muddled by your explanation of differential calculus. 2 confuse, mix up, jumble, scramble, entangle, tangle, mess up, disorder, disarrange, disorganize, bungle, mismanage, Colloq muff: My financial affairs got hopelessly muddled when I changed banks. 3 muddle through. (barely) manage, cope, make it, scrape through or along, contrive, make do, get by, get along: We were just muddling through when James was offered this wonderful job. --n. 4 mess, confusion, mix-up, jumble, tangle, disorder, hotchpotch or US also hodgepodge, mishmash, chaos, disaster, Colloq stew, Slang US screw-up, snafu, Taboo slang Brit balls-up: A lot of muddles, mix-ups, and misunderstandings ensued.
MUFFLE|6|v. 1 Often, muffle up. wrap, swathe, swaddle, cloak, envelop, cover (up), enfold, shroud, enshroud, conceal, protect: Make sure your neck is muffled when you're out in that icy wind. 2 deaden, silence, suppress, stifle, subdue, damp, dampen, mute, hush, quiet, tone down, still: A few more thicknesses of flannel will muffle the noise of the motor.
MUMBLE|7|v. murmur, mutter, say inarticulately, utter indistinctly, swallow one's words: He mumbled the name of the person who had shot him, but she didn't catch it.
MURDER|9|n. 1 homicide, manslaughter, regicide, patricide, matricide, parricide, fratricide, sororicide, uxoricide, infanticide; killing, slaying, assassination: In many countries, murder is a crime punishable by death. 2 slaughter, butchery, genocide, massacre, liquidation, decimation, extermination, eradication, wiping out, murdering, slaying, killing, bloodshed, carnage: Their wanton murder of thousands of prisoners of war has been proven. --v. 3 kill, slay, assassinate, put to death, end the life of, put away or down, put out of one's misery, wipe out, destroy, butcher, massacre, liquidate, exterminate, eradicate, annihilate, extinguish, slaughter, lay low, Slang eliminate, bump off, knock off, do in, polish off, blow away, US rub out, waste, ice, take for a ride, fit with a concrete overcoat or with concrete overshoes, snuff (out): The drug dealers were murdered, one by one, by a rival gang. 4 spoil, ruin, mar, destroy, wreck, kill, mangle, butcher, mutilate: She murdered the song by singing it far too fast.
MURMUR|10|n. 1 undercurrent, undertone, background noise or sound, rumble, rumbling, mumble, mumbling, drone, droning, buzz, buzzing, murmuration, murmuring, hum, humming, whispering, Formal susurration or susurrus: They spoke in low voices, barely audible above the murmur of the mourning doves. 2 muttering, complaining, complaint, grumble, grumbling, Colloq grousing, grouse: We have heard not any murmurs since everyone had an increase in salary. --v. 3 mumble, mutter, whisper: He murmured into her ear something about being pleased to see her. 4 complain, grumble, mutter, moan, lament, wail, Colloq grouse: Employees will always find something to murmur about.
MUTINY|11|n. 1 revolt, rebellion, revolution, subversion, subversiveness, insurgency, insurgence, insurrection, uprising: The crew are threatening a mutiny. --v. 2 rebel, rise up (against), strike, revolt; disobey, subvert, agitate (against): The crew of the Bounty mutinied and set Captain Bligh adrift.
MUTTER|6|v. 1 mumble, murmur, grunt: He was muttering something to himself that I didn't catch. 2 grumble, complain, Colloq grouch, grouse, Brit chunter: She has been muttering about cuts in the postal service ever since I can remember.
MUTUAL|8|adj. 1 reciprocal, reciprocated, requited, interactive, complementary: I love her and I hope that the feeling is mutual. 2 common, communal, joint, shared: Gerald is our mutual friend.
NAMELY|11|adv. specifically, to wit, that is (to say), id est, i.e., videlicet, viz., scilicet, sc.; for example, for instance, exempli gratia, e.g. or eg or eg.: We visited three countries, namely, France, Italy, and Switzerland.
NARROW|7|adj. 1 constricted, slender, slim, thin, restricted, straitened, attenuated, narrowed; narrowing, tapering: We squeezed through the narrow passage to freedom. 2 confined, confining, limited, cramped, close, meagre, pinched, tight, incommodious: I awoke in a cell so narrow I could scarcely move. 3 strict, careful, close, precise, exact, exacting, demanding, finicky, finical, sharp, meticulous, scrupulous, fussy, rigid, searching, critical: The suspected forgeries were submitted to the narrow scrutiny of several experts. 4 restricted, limited, circumscribed, proscribed, denotative: I learnt the meaning of charity in its narrowest sense. 5 See narrow-minded, below. 6 close, hairbreadth, lucky: I'd had a very narrow escape, for the bullet just grazed my scalp. 7 stingy, niggardly, parsimonious, miserly, tight, sparing, tight-fisted, mean, mercenary Brit mingy, Dialectal near, Colloq close: He was so narrow he barely allowed himself the essentials. --v. 8 constrict, limit, qualify, reduce, lessen, diminish, decrease: She narrowed her chances of winning by buying only one lottery ticket. 9 limit, restrict, focus, confine, concentrate, narrow down: They have narrowed the search for the boy to the area near Chester. --n. 10 narrows. strait(s), channel, passage: The vessel approached the narrows at dead slow speed.
NATION|6|n. country, state, land, political entity, polity, domain, realm: The countries of Europe are unlikely to become one nation.
NATIVE|9|adj. 1 innate, natal, inborn, natural, inherent, congenital, indwelling, inherited, hereditary, in the blood, intrinsic, constitutional: Early in life, Carla demonstrated a native ability for music. 2 domestic, local, home-grown; indigenous, autochthonous, aboriginal: The native oysters in this area are superb. 3 basic, first, best, original, exclusive: Can you tell that my native language is Hungarian? 4 national, ethnic, clan, tribal: We visited a Dutch town where the people wear traditional native dress. 5 aboriginal, provincial, local: We soon fell in with the native custom of taking a siesta. 6 born; by birth: Are you a native Glaswegian? --n. 7 aborigine, indigene, autochthon; national, citizen, resident, inhabitant: It is not difficult to distinguish the natives from the tourists in London.
NAUGHT|10|n. nought, nothing, nil, zero, aught or ought; ruin, destruction, disaster, collapse, failure: All my efforts had come to naught.
NAVETY|12|n. naivety, naìvet÷ or naìvet÷, ingenuousness, innocence, credulity, credulousness, inexperience, (blind) trust, gullibility, artlessness, callowness, guilelessness, simplicity, unpretentiousness, candour, naturalness, frankness, openness, sincerity: I hope that no one takes advantage of her naìvety.
NEARBY|11|adv. 1 close by, close at hand, not far-off or -away, in the vicinity or neighbourhood, within (easy) reach, about, around: Hyenas loitered nearby waiting for the lions to leave the kill. --adj. 2 close, within reach, handy, accessible, at or to hand, adjacent: Nearby villagers helped put out the fire. We always kept a gun nearby because of pirates.
NEARLY|9|adv. 1 almost, not quite, about, approximately, all but, just about, virtually, wellnigh, practically, as good as, more or less; around, approaching, nearing, barely, hardly, scarcely, close to: We were nearly there but couldn't make it. She was nearly ninety when her first book was published. 2 closely, identically, exactly, precisely: Her opinions agree most nearly with his. His painting most nearly resembles Picasso's.
NEATEN|6|v. Often, neaten up. tidy (up), straighten (up or out), clean (up), spruce up, (put in) order, Brit dialect trig: If you don't neaten up your room, Mandy, you may not borrow the car.
NESTLE|6|v. cuddle (up), snuggle (up), huddle, curl up, nuzzle (up): They nestled close together to keep warm.
NEUTER|6|adj. 1 asexual, sexless, epicene: Worker bees are neuter, neither male nor female. --v. 2 desex or desexualize, doctor; castrate, emasculate, geld, capon or caponize, eunuchize; spay, ovariectomize, oophorectomize; Colloq fix, cut, US alter: We had our cat neutered after her first litter.
NIGGLE|4|v. find fault, nag, carp, fuss, cavil, criticize; complain, Colloq grouse, Slang bitch, US kvetch: I do wish she would stop niggling when we cannot do anything about the situation.
NIMBLE|5|adj. 1 agile, lively, active, light, lithe, limber, spry, sprightly, brisk, smart, energetic, rapid, quick, swift, adroit, deft, dexterous; nimble-fingered; nimble-footed: She's as nimble as a cat on a hot tin roof. 2 agile, alert, acute, nimble-witted, quick-witted, ready-witted, intelligent, keen, sharp; smart, brilliant, sparkling, scintillating, coruscating: Despite his inability to make decisions, Desmond has quite a nimble mind.
NOBODY|12|pron. 1 no one, not anyone, no person: We had to wait because nobody was in the shop when we entered. --n. 2 nonentity, unknown, zero, cipher, Colloq nothing: Overnight, Tony went from being a celebrity to being a nobody.
NORMAL|8|adj. 1 standard, regular, average, conventional, usual, run-of-the-mill, ordinary, routine, universal, general, common, customary, natural, typical, conformist, orthodox; healthy: If living in this mess seems normal to you, we clearly have different standards. His temperature and pulse are normal. 2 sane, stable, rational, reasonable, well-adjusted: After he had set fire to his school, Julian's parents began to wonder if he was quite normal.
NOTICE|8|v. 1 note, take or make note (of), take notice (of), pay or give attention to, attend (to), heed, take heed (of), give heed to, mark, remark, mind, observe, perceive, see: Notice how quickly he retracted his remarks when challenged. I waved to them, but they didn't notice me. 2 mind, observe, perceive, discern, see, detect, make out, identify, recognize, Colloq spot: I noticed signs of illness when I visited her. --n. 3 attention, awareness, consciousness, perception, observation, cognizance: Let me bring to your notice the second paragraph on page six. 4 regard, consideration, respect, observation, attention, note, heed: They have published many books worthy of notice. He considers matters of money beneath his notice. 5 notification, announcement, information, advice; warning, intimation: A notice showing the currency exchange rates is posted in the bank. The company let Corbett go without notice. 6 criticism, critique, review, comment, commentary: The play has enjoyed excellent notices in the London newspapers. 7 give notice. warn, admonish, notify, announce, advise, inform: British Rail gave notice of a curtailment of service to this station. Barry gave notice today of his resignation.
NOTIFY|12|v. 1 inform, tell, advise, alert, apprise, warn: She notified us that she might come in late today. They wrote to notify shareholders of the new share offer. 2 announce, publish, declare, proclaim, give notice of; intimate, hint: The arrival of the first salmon notified to us the change of season.
NOTION|6|n. 1 idea, thought, concept, conception, image, impression, general idea, (mental) picture, inkling: She has a pretty good notion of who did it. I haven't the slightest notion of what you are talking about. 2 fancy, whim, crotchet, whimsy, caprice, impulse, inclination, vagary, conceit, quirk, kink: She suddenly took a notion to fly to New York and left.
NOVICE|11|n. beginner, neophyte, newcomer, proselyte, tiro or tyro, noviciate or novitiate, learner, amateur, initiate, apprentice, trainee, probationer, fledgling or Brit also fledgeling, US freshman, Colloq greenhorn, rookie: She is a mere novice at parachuting.
NUMBER|10|n. 1 numeral, integer, figure, digit: The columns of numbers were entered in a neat hand. 2 few, handful, crowd, slew, gang, bunch, party, bevy, covey, troop, company, platoon, swarm, horde, multitude, mob, host, army, mass, hundred, thousand, million, billion; several, many, numbers, legions, US and Canadian slew(s) or slue(s), Colloq loads, tons: A number of people attended the meeting. An enormous number of viruses could fit on the head of a pin. 3 issue; edition, copy: The fourth number of the quarterly is published at the end of the year. --v. 4 count, enumerate, compute, calculate, tally, figure (up), add (up), include, total, tot (up), reckon, sum (up): Who can number the stars?
OBJECT|17|n. 1 thing, tangible, item; reality, entity, fact, phenomenon: A number of objects lay on the table. Thoughts may be considered as objects of the imagination. 2 focus, target, butt, aim, destination, quarry, goal: The object of my affection has married someone else. 3 purpose, end, intention, objective, reason, intent, idea, goal: The object of our visit is to ask you a few questions. --v. 4 protest (to or against), interfere (with), raise objections (to), argue (against), oppose, be against, take exception (to), disapprove (of), draw the line (at), complain (about), remonstrate (over or about), take a stand (against), refuse: I won't object if you want to bring the wine. Would you object to rereading that passage? If they ask me, I cannot object.
OBLIGE|9|v. 1 accommodate, indulge, favour, serve, please, cater to, gratify: The hotelier obliged us with every luxury he had to offer. Please oblige us by keeping your dog on a lead. 2 make, require, demand, force, compel, coerce, bind, obligate: What hold has she over you that obliges you to do her housework?
OBSESS|6|v. haunt, harass, plague, bedevil, torment, take over, preoccupy, dominate, control, grip, possess, hold: He was obsessed by the conviction that he could design a successful flying machine.
OBTAIN|8|v. 1 get, procure, acquire, come by, come into (the) possession of, secure, get hold of or one's hands on, grasp, capture, take possession of, seize; buy, purchase: She has been unable to obtain the job she wants. You can obtain that kind of soap at the supermarket. 2 earn, gain: We talked to the manager about obtaining an increase in wages. 3 prevail, be in force, be in vogue, exist, subsist, have (a) place, be prevalent, be established, be customary, apply, be relevant, relate: A different set of regulations obtains here.
OBTUSE|8|adj. 1 rounded, unpointed, blunt: When mature, the leaves become more obtuse. 2 dull, insensitive, unfeeling, imperceptive, thick-skinned, stolid, thick, dense, doltish, cloddish, thickheaded, dull-witted, dim-witted, slow-witted, (mentally) retarded, boneheaded, lumpish, loutish, oafish, simple, simple-minded: Luke is a bit too obtuse to get the point of the story.
OCCULT|4|adj. 1 secret, dark, concealed, private, privy, hidden, obscure, veiled, obscured, shrouded, vague, abstruse, shadowy, mystical, mysterious, cabbalistic, esoteric, recondite, arcane: Printing was kept an occult art for generations. 2 magical, mystical, alchemic(al), unexplained, unexplainable, inexplicable, puzzling, baffling, perplexing, mystifying, mysterious, incomprehensible, inscrutable, indecipherable, impenetrable, unfathomable, transcendental, supernatural, preternatural, mystic: They dress in odd clothes and participate in occult rituals at peculiar times of the day and night. --n. 3 Usually, the occult. the supernatural, the unknown, the black arts; arcana, cabbala or cabala or kabbala; cabbalism or cabalism or kabbalism, occultism, sorcery, witchcraft, black magic: Keith has studied the occult for many years.
OCCUPY|9|v. 1 capture, seize, take possession of, conquer, invade, take over, overrun, garrison, dominate, hold: Rebel forces had occupied the capital and toppled the governor. 2 live or reside or dwell in, tenant, be established or ensconced or situated in, establish or ensconce or situate oneself in, inhabit, be settled in or into, settle in or into, take up residence in, make one's home in, move in or into; be located in: She occupies a luxurious flat in Belgravia. 3 engage, busy, absorb, monopolize, hold, take up or over, catch, grab, seize, grip; divert, amuse, entertain, distract, beguile, preoccupy, hold (someone's) attention, interest, engross, involve: Other matters occupied my attention last Sunday. While one man was keeping the shopkeeper occupied, the other man was robbing the till. 4 fill (in or up), take up, cover, extend over, consume, use (up), Colloq eat up: The car occupies more garage space than I thought it would. Housework occupies very little of my time.
ODDITY|7|n. 1 peculiarity, strangeness, unnaturalness, curiousness, incongruity, incongruousness, eccentricity, outlandishness, extraordinariness, unconventionality, bizarreness, weirdness, queerness, oddness, unusualness, individuality, singularity, distinctiveness, anomalousness, anomaly, Colloq kinkiness, US and Canadian kookiness: What caught my attention was the oddity of the clothes worn by the students. 2 peculiarity, curiosity, rarity, freak, original, phenomenon, character, eccentric, nonconformist, fish out of water, odd bird, rara avis, misfit, square peg in a round hole, maverick, Colloq card, crank, weirdie or weirdo, oner, Brit odd fish, US and Canadian kook, oddball, screwball: The townspeople thought Albert an oddity, but we knew he was a genius. 3 peculiarity, irregularity, anomaly, idiosyncrasy, eccentricity, deviation, quirk, mannerism, twist, kink, crotchet: I suppose people all have their own oddities when it comes to food.
OFFEND|5|v. 1 hurt (someone's) feelings, affront, insult, slight, snub, give offence, hurt, pain, displease, disgruntle, chagrin, humiliate, embarrass; pique, fret, gall, vex, annoy, irritate, nettle, needle, rankle, provoke, ruffle, outrage, rile, anger , Colloq miff, put (someone's) back up, put (someone's) nose out of joint, tread or step on (someone's) toes, put (someone) out, rattle: I hope you weren't offended by my saying that you could do with losing some weight. 2 disgust, sicken, turn (someone's) stomach, nauseate, repel, repulse, revolt, Colloq turn (someone) off: I, for one, am offended by seeing explicit sex on television.
OFFICE|6|n. 1 business, organization, department, firm, house, establishment, company, corporation: Whenever I'm travelling, I always try to phone the office once a day. 2 commission, department, branch; section, division: He was with the overseas office for years. 3 workplace, offices; room, area: Our new office is completely air-conditioned. My office is next to the board room. 4 duty, obligation, responsibility, charge, commission, service, employment, occupation, position, post, appointment, assignment, chore, task, job, place, berth, work, role, function, purpose, part, bit, Colloq thing, Slang shtick: He was appointed to the office of Minister of Health. In her office as Minister of Finance, she wields great power. 5 offices. indulgence, intermediation, auspices, support, advocacy, aegis, help, aid, intercession, mediation, patronage, favour, backing, backup: She appealed to the police chief's good offices to allow her to visit her son.
OFFSET|4|v. 1 compensate, counterbalance, countervail, counterpoise, counteract, balance (out), equalize, even (out or up), square, cancel (out), neutralize, nullify, make up (for), atone (for), redress; recompense, repay, make amends or restitution, make good, reimburse, indemnify: The votes from the Centre offset those lost to the Far Left. How are you going to offset losses resulting from pilferage by shop assistants? --n. 2 compensation, counterbalance, counteraction, check, equalizer, neutralizer: The bank manager considered the money owed to the company as sufficient offset for the money owed by it.
ONWARD|10|adj. forward, advancing, progressive, progressing, moving onward or forward: They resumed their onward march, laying waste to the countryside as they went.
OPAQUE|6|adj. 1 dark, murky, dim, turbid, muddy, cloudy, obscure, obscured, obfuscated, black, impermeable, impenetrable, clouded, non-transparent, untransparent, non-translucent, hazy, blurred, blurry, smoky: Solar eclipses should be viewed directly only through special opaque glass. 2 unclear, vague, indefinite, obscure, unfathomable, unplumbable, baffling, mystifying, ambiguous, equivocal, impenetrable, cryptic, enigmatic, puzzling, perplexing, mysterious, elusive, abstruse, arcane, recondite: Despite years of study, the inscriptions on the tomb have remained opaque to scholars. 3 unintelligent, dense, thick, dull, obtuse, stupid, dull-witted, stolid, thickheaded, dunderheaded, dunderpated, slow, doltish, backward, cloddish: He was too opaque to notice the jeers of his colleagues.
OPENLY|11|adv. 1 brazenly, brashly, flagrantly, unabashedly, unashamedly, unreservedly, boldly, audaciously, flauntingly: She has openly defied the direct orders of her employer. 2 frankly, unreservedly, plainly, forthrightly, candidly, directly, outright, freely, outspokenly: The man admitted openly that he had stolen the plans for the missile.
OPPOSE|4|v. 1 resist, counter, object (to), defy, take a stand against, withstand, resist, combat, contest, attack, counter-attack, fight, grapple with, contend with or against: If it comes to that, we must oppose force with force. 2 check, bar, obstruct, block, hinder, impede, stop, slow, curb, restrain, inhibit, interfere with, restrict, prevent, obviate, preclude, thwart, foil, frustrate: Labour seeks to oppose the privatization of industry. 3 match, offset, counterbalance, contrast, pit or set against, play off (against), set off: What can they call upon to oppose the power of the Devil?
OPTION|8|n. 1 choice, selection, alternative, recourse, opportunity, way out: There are fewer employment options open to the uneducated. 2 choice, privilege, election, opportunity, chance: Investors pay for the option to buy at a fixed figure if the price of the shares goes up.
ORACLE|8|n. 1 prophet, sibyl, seer, soothsayer, augur, fortune-teller, diviner, prognosticator, US reader (and adviser or advisor), Cassandra, Nostradamus; authority, guru, mastermind, mentor, wizard: He insists on consulting his oracle before making any final decision. 2 prophecy, augury, prediction, divination, advice, prognostication, answer, message, divine utterance: According to the oracle, the travellers would survive the perils of the journey.
ORDEAL|7|n. trial, test, tribulation(s), hardship, affliction, trouble(s), suffering, distress, anguish, nightmare, misery, grief, misfortune, adversity, tragedy, disaster: She never fully recovered from her ordeal at the hands of the kidnappers.
ORIENT|6|n. 1 east: Harriet is in the orient on business. --adj. 2 Literary oriental, eastern: The grass was sown with orient pearls. --v. 3 adjust, adapt, acclimatize or acclimate, habituate, accommodate, condition, accustom, familiarize, feel one's way, assess, get one's bearings, Colloq orientate: It is a new job and she needs a few days to orient herself.
ORIGIN|7|n. 1 source, derivation, rise, fountain-head, foundation, basis, base, well-spring, fount, provenance, Chiefly US provenience: The origins of many English words are unknown. 2 creation, genesis, birth, birthplace, cradle, dawning, dawn, origination, start, beginning, commencement, outset, launch, launching, inception, inauguration: The origin of the notion of democracy can be traced to ancient Greece. 3 Often, origins. parentage, ancestry, extraction, descent, lineage, pedigree, genealogy, stock, heritage: We have traced our family's origins back to the Middle Ages.
ORNATE|6|adj. elaborate, florid, overdone, laboured, rococo, baroque, gingerbread, arabesque, fancy, lavish, rich, flowery, busy, fussy, frilly, intricate; high-flown, euphuistic, Ossianic, bombastic, pompous, pretentious, affected, grandiose, fulsome, highfalutin or hifalutin, grandiloquent, flamboyant: Louis Quinze style is far too ornate for my tastes. We find his writing, with its contorted artificialities, far too ornate to appeal to the modern reader.
OUTCRY|11|n. protest, protestation, decrial, complaint, indignation, uproar, vociferation, clamour, clamouring, commotion, outburst, noise, hullabaloo, howl, howling, hoot, hooting, boo, booing, hiss, hissing: The public outcry against terrorism was heard round the world.
OUTFIT|9|n. 1 gear, rig, equipment, equipage, apparatus, accoutrements or US also accouterments, paraphernalia, trappings, tackle, tack, utensils: His mountain-climbing outfit turned out to be extremely expensive. 2 clothes, costume, ensemble; attire, garb, clothing, dress; Colloq get-up, togs: She was wearing a very weird outfit that attracted a lot of stares. 3 firm, concern, business, organization, company, (military) unit, corporation; party, set, group; Colloq set-up: I joined the outfit when it consisted of only a hundred people. --v. 4 fit (out or up), equip, kit out, provision, stock, accoutre or US also accouter, rig (out or up), supply, furnish: The shop is prepared to outfit anyone for anything from a walk in the country to an African safari or an Arctic expedition.
OUTING|3|n. jaunt, junket, excursion, trip, expedition, tour, ride, Colloq spin: This year, the annual church outing will again be to Torquay.
OUTLAW|9|n. 1 criminal, gangster, robber, desperado, bandit, highwayman, brigand, footpad, picaroon, pirate, fugitive (from justice or the law), renegade, US road-agent: In Westerns, the sheriff always wins out over the outlaws. --v. 2 forbid, disallow, ban, interdict, bar, exclude, prohibit, proscribe: Some countries have outlawed prostitution, but with little effect.
OUTLAY|9|n. expense, cost, expenditure, spending, disbursement, payment: The city council refused to approve the outlay for a new swimming-pool.
OUTLET|6|n. 1 way out, exit, egress, loophole, relief, escape, escape hatch, vent, opening, release, safety-valve, discharge: There seemed to be no outlet for his anger but to throw the cushion at her. The main outlet of the Great Lakes is the St Lawrence river. 2 retailer, shop, store, market: The company is having difficulty finding outlets that will stock its products.
OUTPUT|8|n. 1 production, result, yield, crop, harvest: Nobody was quite ready for such a massive output. 2 productivity, achievement, efficiency: Job insecurity has diminished her output. --v. 3 put out, produce, generate, create, manufacture, yield, achieve: Our new laser printer outputs about ten pages a minute.
OUTSET|6|n. beginning, start, inauguration, inception, first, Colloq kick-off: Had you let them know who you were at the outset, this wouldn't have happened.
OUTWIT|9|v. See outsmart, above.
OVERDO|10|v. 1 carry to excess, overindulge, be intemperate, go or carry to extremes, overact, exaggerate, carry or go too far, overreach, not know when to stop, paint the lily, gild refined gold, out-Herod Herod, Colloq go overboard, do to death, lay it on thick, lay it on with a trowel; go off the deep end: Exercise a little judgement and try not to overdo it. 2 overwork, do too much, overtax, exhaust, fatigue, overload, overburden, Colloq bite off more than one can chew, burn the candle at both ends: Don't overdo it or you'll feel the results tomorrow.
OVERLY|12|adv. excessively, too, exceedingly, immoderately, disproportionately, unduly, inordinately, extraordinarily, very, Colloq damned: She seemed overly anxious for us to leave.
PACKED|7|adj. filled, full, loaded, crowded, stuffed, jammed, crammed, brim-full, chock-a-block, chock-full, jam-packed, overloaded, overflowing, loaded or filled to the gunwales, up to there, bursting, groaning, swollen, replete, Colloq wall-to-wall: The gallery was packed with the soprano's relatives, who cheered every note. The publicity for the show promised a packed programme of mirth and merriment.
PADDLE|6|n. 1 oar, sweep, scull: A 'crab' occurs when you catch the water with the paddle blade on the return stroke. --v. 2 row, scull, oar: Deftly she paddled the canoe over to the pier. 3 wade: The children were paddling at the water's edge. 4 spank, paddywhack, thrash, beat, whip, flog: Dad threatened to paddle me if he caught me playing hookey again.
PALACE|10|n. mansion, castle, stately or palatial home or residence, manor (house), (country) estate, chçteau, palazzo, villa: After the wedding, they went to the prince's palace and lived happily ever after.
PAMPER|12|v. baby, coddle, cosset, (over)indulge, spoil, mollycoddle, cater to, pet, Rare cocker, Irish cosher: The Simpsons pamper their children far too much.
PARADE|9|n. 1 procession, march, train, file, promenade, cortëge, column; entourage: They held a parade to celebrate the soldiers' safe return from the war. 2 exhibition, (ostentatious) display, show, spectacle, array, pomp, splash: She often makes a parade of her knowledge of architecture. 3 promenade, walk, (pedestrian) way, mall, esplanade: Let's meet in the Parade when you have finished shopping. --v. 4 march, pass in review, promenade, walk, file: The generals saluted smartly as the troops paraded past. 5 strut, flaunt, show (off), brandish, wave, vaunt, display, air: Why does he feel it necessary to parade every new girlfriend in front of all the neighbours?
PARDON|9|n. 1 forgiveness, forgiving, amnesty, remission, release, reprieval, absolution, indulgence, excuse, excusal, allowance, overlooking, condonation, exoneration, exculpation: Should there be any pardon for crimes against humanity? --v. 2 forgive, remit, release, reprieve, absolve, indulge, allow, overlook, let off, excuse, condone, exonerate, exculpate: There are some crimes that ought not be pardoned.
PARENT|8|n. 1 father or mother, progenitor, progenitrix, procreator, begetter, materfamilias or paterfamilias; foster-parent, stepmother or stepfather, guardian, Colloq old lady or old man, Brit old-fashioned or facetiousmater or pater: Most teenagers clash with their parents sooner or later. 2 source, origin, originator, well-spring, fountain-head, root: The liturgy of St James is undoubtedly the parent of the Armenian Rite.
PARITY|11|n. 1 equality, equivalence, consistency, uniformity, par, likeness, similarity, analogy, congruity, similitude, conformity, congruence: The ministers agreed that they would observe parity of power amongst themselves at the conference. 2 proportion, parallelism, analogy, balance, correspondence: We are trying to maintain parity between the Deutschmark and the pound sterling.
PARLEY|11|n. 1 conference, discussion, dialogue, palaver, deliberation, meeting, colloquy, colloquium, confabulation, powwow, talk(s), Colloq huddle, confab: The issue will be decided at the executive council's parley. --v. 2 confer, discuss, palaver, deliberate, talk (over), negotiate, deal, Colloq huddle: Would Sitting Bull parley with General Custer?
PARODY|12|n. 1 burlesque, lampoon, satire, caricature, mockery, mimicry, Colloq take-off, spoof, Brit send-up: The more serious the intent of the original author's work, the easier it is to write a parody of it. 2 travesty, mockery, feeble or poor imitation, distortion, perversion, corruption, debasement: The Inquisition was a parody of justice and of religion. --v. 3 burlesque, lampoon, satirize, caricature, mock, mimic, ape, ridicule, deride, laugh at, poke fun at, guy, scoff at, sneer at, rib, tease, twit, roast, pillory, make a laughing-stock (of), make sport of, make fun of, make a monkey (out) of, Archaic fleer, Colloq take off, spoof, kid, Brit send up: Swift parodied English political figures and policies of the day in Gulliver's Travels .
PARROT|6|n. 1 imitator, mimic, Colloq copycat: She never has an original idea of her own: she's a mere parrot of others' fashions and fancies. --v. 2 imitate, mimic, ape, copy, echo, repeat, reiterate: Mick doesn't understand the issues and just parrots what he hears on TV.
PASTOR|8|n. vicar, clergyman, clergywoman, parson, minister, churchman, churchwoman, rector, canon, reverend, father, divine, ecclesiastic, priest, bishop: The pastor led the congregation in prayer.
PATENT|8|n. 1 certificate of invention, letters patent, trade name, trade mark, copyright, US service mark; licence, permit, charter, franchise, grant; control: My brother holds the patent on a new piece of laboratory equipment. You think you have a patent on misery, but I have news for you. --adj. 2 obvious, clear, transparent, manifest, apparent, plain, evident, self-evident, unmistakable or unmistakeable, unequivocal, explicit, palpable, tangible, physical, conspicuous, flagrant, blatant, prominent: The results are as patent as the fact that two and two make four.
PATROL|8|n. 1 guard, sentry, watch, watchman, sentinel, patrolman: The patrol passes here once every hour. 2 rounds, policing, patrolling, beat; protecting, protection, guarding, safeguarding, defending, watchfulness, vigilance: The patrol must be maintained night and day. --v. 3 police, guard, protect, defend, watch over, walk a beat, make (the) rounds, stand or keep guard or watch (over), keep vigil: Some of the local residents have taken to patrolling the neighbourhood at night.
PAUNCH|6|n. belly, pot-belly, Colloq corporation, US bay window, Slang beer-belly: Capitalism is often conventionalized as a top-hatted older man, in tails, with a huge paunch and a cigar.
PAUPER|10|n. have-not, indigent, down-and-out(er), bankrupt, insolvent; beggar, mendicant; tramp, hobo, vagrant, US bum: The mortgage payments on such a lavish house soon made him a pauper.
PAYOFF|9|n. 1 See pay, 12, above. 2 result, outcome, upshot, conclusion, wind-up, settlement, final reckoning, Colloq punch-line, crunch, grand finale, Slang US and Canadian kicker: The pay-off was that permission to march on Sunday was denied. 3 bribe, graft, rebate; ransom, blood-money, Colloq kickback, hush money, Chiefly US payola, US plugola: The pay-off was always made in cash, in used notes.
PEARLY|11|adj. nacreous, pearl-like, perlaceous, lustrous, mother-of-pearl: The dress was trimmed with pink lace and little pearly buttons.
PEDDLE|6|v. sell, hawk, market, vend, huckster, Colloq push, flog: He is a publishing tycoon today, but he started by peddling books door-to-door.
PENTUP|10|adj. restrained, constrained, repressed, stifled, bottled-up, corked-up, held in, checked, held back, curbed, inhibited, restricted: After weeks of frustration, he wanted to release his pent-up emotions in a scream. They went jogging to try to work off their pent-up energy.
PEOPLE|10|n.pl. 1 persons, individuals, men and women, ladies and gentlemen, males and females, living souls; mortals; bodies: How many people can this aeroplane carry? 2 relations, relatives, kin, kinsmen, kinsfolk or US and Canadian kinfolk, family, kith and kin; ancestors, forebears: His people left Russia in 1917. 3 masses, (general) public, hoi polloi, consumers, multitude, populace, common people, common man, commoners, subjects, citizenry, plebeians, grass roots, proletariat, rank and file, the crowd, commonalty or commonality, mobile vulgus, bourgeoisie; man or woman in the street, Everyman, Everywoman, Mr or Mrs Average, Brit A. N. Other, Joe Bloggs, man or woman on the Clapham omnibus, US John Doe, Mary Doe, Richard Roe, John Q. Public; Colloq and often derogatory proles, the rabble, ragtag and bobtail, silent majority, common herd, Brit plebs, admass: Politicians unable to communicate with the people are seldom elected. --n.sing. 4 race, community, clan, tribe, folk, nation, population, society: On the subject of religion, they were a people divided. The anthropologists were studying the peoples south of the Sahara. --v. 5 populate, colonize, settle, occupy: The area was once peopled with Berber tribesmen.
PEPPER|6|v. sprinkle, scatter, dot, speckle, fleck, spot, spray, bespeckle, speckle, spatter, stipple, mottle: The letter was peppered with ink-spots. Their speech was peppered with swear-words.
PERIOD|9|n. 1 interval, time, term, span, duration, spell, space, stretch; while; Colloq chiefly Brit patch: During the period of his absence, his children had grown up. I waited a short period, then phoned again. We went through a bad period last year. 2 era, days, epoch, aeon, age, years: During the Old English period, very little was written down. 3 full stop: Place periods at the ends of sentences.
PERISH|6|v. die, expire, lose (one's) life, be killed, be lost, meet (one's) death, be destroyed: Three gnus perished in the fire at the zoo.
PERKUP|14|v. cheer up, become jaunty, brighten, liven up, invigorate, smarten up, quicken, (re)vitalize, pep up, revive, inspirit, Colloq buck up: The old lady perks up when her grandchildren come to visit. To perk up the party, Peter suggested we should all play a game.
PERSON|8|n. 1 individual, human (being), being, man or woman or child, (living) soul; mortal: Not a single person knew the answer to my question. 2 in person. physically, personally, bodily, actually, myself or yourself or himself or herself or ourselves or yourselves, or themselves, Colloq in the flesh: The correspondent visited the battlefield in person to see for himself the extent of the carnage. I know their records, but I have never seen them in person.
PERUSE|8|v. read, study, scan, scrutinize, examine, inspect, review, browse, run one's eye over: As Gregory was perusing the ancient manuscript, a sudden draught blew out the candle.
PESTER|8|v. annoy, nag, irritate, irk, bother, get at or to, badger, plague, vex, fret, hector, harass, harry, heckle, nettle, chafe, peeve, pique, provoke, exasperate, bedevil, get or grate on (someone's) nerves, get under (someone's) skin, get in (someone's) hair, try (someone's patience), torment, persecute, Brit chivvy, Colloq drive (someone) up the wall, needle, give (someone) the needle, hassle, ride, give (someone) a hard or bad time, bug: Please stop pestering me about going to the football game.
PETITE|8|adj. delicate, dainty, mignon(ne), diminutive, small, little, slight, tiny, small-boned, Colloq Brit dinky: It was incongruous to see the basketball player with a petite blonde.
PHOBIA|13|n. fear, horror, terror, dread, hatred, detestation, abhorrence, loathing, execration, aversion, revulsion, repugnance, dislike, distaste, antipathy; disquiet, nervousness, qualm, distrust, suspicion, apprehension, worry: He suffers from claustrophobia, which means that he has a phobia for enclosed places, and he avoids lifts and telephone booths.
PHONEY|14|adj. 1 unreal, fake, synthetic, artificial, factitious, false, fraudulent, imitation, bogus, spurious, counterfeit, mock, ersatz, paste, trumped up; sham, pretended, insincere, hypocritical, dissimulating, deceitful, dishonest; US also phony, Colloq pseudo or Brit pseud: They were caught trying to collect insurance on the theft of a string of phoney pearls. Every time she wanted something, she'd turn on the phoney charm. --n. 2 fake, fraud, imitation, counterfeit, forgery, hoax, sham, US also phony: The diamond she's wearing is a phoney. 3 trickster, faker, humbug, impostor, pretender, charlatan, mountebank, double-dealer, counterfeiter, quack, deceiver, US also phony, Colloq Brit pseud, Slang US paper-hanger: Madame Tatiana claims to be able to communicate with the dead, but I think she's a phoney.
PHRASE|11|n. 1 clause, noun phrase, verb phrase, prepositional phrase, adverbial phrase, adjectival phrase: When asked for an example of a verb phrase, the student responded, 'Shut up'. 2 expression, word-group, collocation, locution, idiom, idiomatic expression, collocution, proverb, motto, slogan, saying, catch-phrase, adage, maxim, axiom, saw, colloquialism, clich÷, platitude, commonplace, Colloq chestnut: Do you know the source of Churchill's famous phrase, 'Blood, sweat, and tears'? 3 phraseology, phrasing, wording, language, usage, way or manner of speaking, diction, parlance, faúon de parler, modus loquendi, modus scribendi, speech habit, style, choice of words, word choice, syntax, vocabulary: He was to 'let slip', to use Shakespeare's phrase, 'the dogs of war'. --v. 4 express, term, word, put, frame, formulate, couch, put into words, put or set forth, verbalize, articulate, voice, utter, say, write; describe, delineate: I am pondering over the best way to phrase this example.
PICKET|6|n. 1 stake, pale, post, peg, stanchion, upright, vertical, palisade, paling: The walls of the fort were of strong pickets tapered to a point at the top. 2 demonstrator, protester, striker: The police prevented the pickets from attacking workers who entered the factory. 3 picquet, sentinel, watchman, guard, observer, patrol, vedette or vidette or vedette boat: The picket reported no unusual activity. --v. 4 enclose, shut in, wall in, fence (in), hem in, box in: We picketed the camp for the night. 5 protest, demonstrate, blockade: Strikers picketed the factory 24 hours a day.
PICNIC|12|n. 1 garden party, féte champétre, meal alfresco, barbecue, US clam-bake, US and Canadian cookout: The clouds had gone, and it was a great day for a picnic. 2 child's play, Colloq pushover, snap, cinch, piece of cake, walk-over, US and Canadian breeze, lead-pipe cinch: Sailing home with a quartering wind - it was a picnic all the way. 3 no picnic. difficult, arduous, torture, torturous, agony, agonizing, painful, disagreeable, discomfiting, misfortune, Colloq tough, tough luck, tough going, rough, a pain in the neck, US tough sledding, Taboo slang pain in the Brit arse or US ass: Being marooned on a desert island for a month was no picnic, I assure you.
PIERCE|10|v. 1 stab, puncture, penetrate, thrust or poke into, lance, spear, spit, run through or into, skewer, impale, fix, transfix: The arrow pierced his heart and he dropped down dead. 2 bore into or through, penetrate, drill, perforate, riddle, punch through, hole, tunnel into: The wall is pierced to provide ventilation. 3 penetrate, fathom, see, understand, comprehend,, grasp, discover, realize: His keen analytical mind allowed him to pierce the mysteries of nature. 4 affect (keenly), touch, move, melt, stir, rouse, pain, cut to the quick, wound, strike: It pierced my heart to hear the child weep.
PILEUP|10|n. 1 (road) accident, smash, crash, (multiple) (rear-end) collision, Colloq smash-up: Thirty cars were involved in that pile-up on the motorway. 2 accumulation, heap, stack, mass, Colloq mountain: How will you ever get through that pile-up of work on your desk?
PILFER|11|v. steal, rob, plunder, thieve, filch, embezzle, misappropriate, purloin, take, walk off with, palm, Colloq appropriate, pinch, snatch, grab, lift, borrow, Brit nick, snaffle, US boost, Slang hook, snitch, swipe, rip off: The auditors found that he had pilfered small sums from the company for years.
PILLAR|6|n. 1 column, pilaster, pile, piling, pier, upright, post, shaft, prop; atlas, caryatid: The roof is supported by a single pillar. Lot's wife was turned into a pillar of salt. 2 mainstay, supporter, worthy, upholder, backbone, (tower of) strength, leader: Cummings has been a pillar of strength in our community.
PIMPLE|12|n. pustule, papula, boil, swelling, eruption, blackhead or technical comedo, excrescence, Brit spot, Scots plouk or plook, US whitehead, Old-fashioned US hickey: The old witch had a pimple at the end of her nose.
PIRATE|8|n. 1 buccaneer, sea rover, corsair, privateer, freebooter, sea-robber, filibuster, Archaic picaroon: Captain Kidd and Blackbeard were actual pirates who looted shipping in the Americas in the 17th century. 2 plagiarist, plagiarizer, infringer: Some of these pirates offer unauthorized cheap reprints of expensive textbooks. --v. 3 plagiarize, infringe, copy, reproduce, steal, appropriate, poach, Colloq lift, pinch, crib: Our government has no jurisdiction over those who pirate books in countries with which we have no treaty.
PISTOL|8|n. gun, handgun, revolver, automatic, Slang rod, piece, shooting-iron, Chiefly US gat, US Saturday-night special, heater, roscoe: In the United States, law enforcement officers are required to carry a pistol.
PISTON|8|n. plunger: The piston in a bicycle pump is worked by hand.
PITTED|7|adj. eaten away, corroded, eroded, pock-marked, defaced, marred, pierced, perforated: The chrome plating is all pitted where the acid splashed.
PLAQUE|6|n. 1 tablet, medallion, plate, panel, marker, slab, plaquette: The plaque on the house marks it as the birthplace of Thomas Carlyle. 2 badge, brooch, pin, patch, medallion, medal, insignia or insigne: The plaque shows him to be a member of the Royal Yacht Squadron. 3 prize, honour, award, trophy: At the annual dinner, she was presented with a plaque to mark her many years of service.
PLAYER|11|n. 1 contestant, participant, competitor, contender; athlete, sportswoman, sportsman, Colloq US jock: Chess players from all over the world came together for the championship. The referee sent three players off. 2 actor or actress, performer, entertainer, trouper, Thespian: The local drama group is the Allen Arts Players. 3 gambler, better or especially US bettor, gamester, speculator, Brit punter: J.B. is a big player in the commodities market. 4 musician, instrumentalist, performer, virtuoso: Gladys is one of the best tuba players in the band.
PLEDGE|10|n. 1 promise, oath, vow, word (of honour), covenant, assurance, guaranty, guarantee, warrant, warranty: They have our solemn pledge that we will return within the hour. 2 bail, surety, collateral, security, deposit, earnest (money), pawn, gage, bond, guaranty, guarantee: They wanted something besides my signature as a pledge for the money. 3 toast, tribute, cheer, health: They drank a pledge to the success of the voyage. --v. 4 swear, vow, promise, give one's word (of honour), contract, undertake, agree, vouch, vouchsafe: I pledge allegiance to the nation. 5 deposit, pawn, mortgage, Archaic gage, Colloq US and Canadian hock: He pledged his gold watch to pay for her birthday present. 6 toast, drink (to), drink (someone's) health: Drink to me only with thine eyes And I will pledge with mine.
PLENTY|11|n. 1 abundance, more than enough, great deal, mass(es), quantity or quantities, multitude(s), number(s), load(s), mess, scores, Colloq lot(s), mountain(s), heap(s), stack(s), pile(s), load(s), ton(s), ocean(s), oodles, US and Canadian slew(s): There is plenty of food, so it is just as well that plenty of people are coming. There's plenty of time before your bus arrives. 2 plentifulness, fertility, copiousness, abundance, plenteousness, wealth, profusion, lavishness, prodigality, plenitude, bountifulness: It was a land of plenty, a land of milk and honey.
PLIGHT|5|n. condition, state, circumstances, situation, case; difficulty, predicament, quandary, dilemma, catch-22, straits, trouble, extremity, Colloq hole, jam, pickle, spot, scrape, fix, bind, hot water, mess, fine kettle of fish, fine state of affairs: As soon as Elliott's sorry plight became known, we all rallied round to help.
PLOUGH|12|v. 1 till, cultivate, furrow, harrow, Literary delve: They ought to finish ploughing the south field by tomorrow. 2 drive, plunge, push, bulldoze, lunge, dive, shove, hurtle, crash: Out of control, a bus ploughed through the fence and into my garden.
PLUNGE|9|v. 1 descend, drop, plummet, dive, pitch, nosedive, fall (headlong): They lost their footing, and both Holmes and Moriarty plunged into the abyss. 2 submerge, sink, immerse; engulf, overwhelm: I plunged my hand in the icy water to retrieve the keys. She plunged herself into her work to try to forget him. --n. 3 dive, nosedive, fall, pitch, plummet, drop, descent; submersion, immersion: After the scandal his career took a plunge from which it never recovered. Every winter they take a plunge into the icy waters of the Serpentine. 4 gamble, wager, bet, risk: Are you taking the plunge with an investment in South America?
POCKET|6|n. 1 pouch, sack, bag, receptacle, reticule, satchel: You should always have a clean handkerchief in your pocket. 2 cavity, pit, hollow, crater: We found water that had collected in pockets in the surface of the rock. 3 area, island, camp, centre, cluster, concentration: Leaders encountered pockets of resistance to the new policies among the farmers. --v. 4 take, appropriate, keep; filch, embezzle, steal, purloin, thieve, pilfer, help oneself to, palm, Colloq walk off or away with, pinch, swipe, rip off, hook, lift, snitch, Brit nick, snaffle: While collecting for charity, Johnson was known to have pocketed occasional contributions.
POETIC|10|adj. 1 poetical, lyric(al), metrical, musical, melodic; idyllic, elegiac, georgic, rhapsodic, epic, dithyrambic: She bought a volume of the poetic works of John Keats. 2 artistic, aesthetic, Parnassian, Hippocrenian, melodious: The novel contains some poetic passages of surpassing quality.
POETRY|11|n. verse, versification, metrical composition, metrics, rhyme, Archaic poesy: Modern poetry is often rather obscure.
POISED|9|adj. 1 composed, controlled, self-possessed, unflappable, (self-)confident, (self-)assured, dignified, cool-headed, imperturbable, unruffled, cool, staid, reserved, sedate, calm, serene, tranquil, Colloq together: For a lad of eleven, Richard is quite poised. 2 ready, standing by, waiting, prepared: Our commando unit is poised to attack at your signal. 3 teetering, hovering, tottering, wavering, suspended, trembling, wobbling, balanced: In the present business climate, the company is poised on the brink of bankruptcy.
POISON|8|n. 1 toxin, venom, bane; miasma, mephitis: The chemical plant was found to be releasing poisons into the atmosphere. He kills rats using poison. 2 virus, bane, cancer, canker, corrupt or evil influence, pestilence, plague, blight: The drug barons continue to spread their poison throughout the world. --v. 3 defile, adulterate, infect, taint, pollute; contaminate, debase, pervert, vitiate, subvert, warp, envenom: Chemicals from the nearby plant have poisoned the drinking-water. Why have you poisoned the child's mind against eating spinach? 4 murder, kill, do away with, destroy, dispatch or despatch: Lucrezia Borgia poisoned her enemies in ingenious ways.
POLICE|10|n. 1 constabulary, policemen, policewomen, police officers, Colloq boys in blue, the (long arm of the) law, the cops, the gendarmes, Slang the coppers, the fuzz, Brit the (Old) Bill, US the heat: There was a bit of an argument, so we called the police. --v. 2 patrol, guard, watch, protect: Additional officers were assigned to police the neighbourhood. 3 enforce, regulate, administer, oversee, control, observe, supervise, monitor: A unit was established to police the terms of the agreement.
POLICY|13|n. approach, procedure, (game) plan, design, scheme, programme, method, system, management, conduct, behaviour, strategy, tactic(s), principle(s), protocol, regulation, rule, custom, way, practice, ways and means, action: What policy should we follow regarding interest rates?
POLISH|6|v. 1 shine, brighten, burnish, buff, furbish, wax, clean, smooth, rub, gloss: He polished up the handles so carefully That now he is the ruler of the Queen's navy. 2 Often, polish up. refine, improve, perfect, finish, cultivate, ameliorate, enhance; correct, emend: If you polish up the article we might consider it for publication. 3 polish off. a conclude, end, terminate, finish: Ned polished off his homework in less than an hour. b kill, slay, murder, dispatch or despatch, destroy, dispose of, do away with, liquidate, eliminate, Slang bump off, rub out, do in, take for a ride: Three platoons were polished off quickly. c dispose of, put away, eat, consume, wolf (down): In a few minutes, MacGregor had polished off the entire meal. 4 polish up. study, review, learn, Archaic con, Colloq bone up (on), Slang Brit swot up (on): If you're going to MÁlaga, you'd better polish up your Spanish. --n. 5 gloss, shine, lustre, sheen, glaze, smoothness, brilliance, sparkle, gleam, glow, brightness, radiance: You cannot imagine what a fine polish she put on that old table. 6 wax, oil: The new polish really put a shine on the desk.
POLITE|8|adj. 1 civil, respectful, well-mannered, mannerly, courteous, deferential, diplomatic, tactful, formal, proper, cordial: We asked our new neighbours to tea but were met with a polite refusal. 2 See polished, 2, above.
PONDER|9|v. consider, muse (over or on), brood (over or upon or on), mull over, deliberate (over), meditate (upon or on), think (over or on or about), weigh, ruminate (over), chew over, cogitate, excogitate, reflect (on or over), contemplate: I shall need a while to ponder the answer to that question. Give me a little more time to ponder.
POORLY|9|adv. 1 badly, inadequately, unsatisfactorily, incompetently, inexpertly, improperly, crudely, unprofessionally, amateurishly: The decorators you recommended have done their work very poorly indeed. --adj. Colloq 2 unwell, indisposed, ailing, sick, below par, Colloq rotten, under the weather: Charles is rather poorly, I'm afraid.
POROUS|5|adj. spongy, spongelike, permeable, pervious, penetrable: The rainwater runs through the porous rock and collects in the pools below.
PORTER|8|n. bearer, (baggage) carrier or attendant, US airports skycap, US railways redcap: I tipped the porter to carry our bags to a taxi.
POSEUR|8|n. posturer, exhibitionist, pretender, impostor, masquerader, attitudinizer; fake, faker, dissembler, fraud, Colloq show-off, phoney or US also phony: He talks about literature, but he's a poseur who just spouts the opinions of others.
POSTER|8|n. placard, notice, bill, advertisement, announcement, broadside, broadsheet; circular, flier: Who designed that striking poster for the new play?
POTENT|8|adj. 1 powerful, strong; mighty, vigorous, forceful, formidable, authoritative, influential, Literary puissant: A potent poison will kill those weeds. We have to reckon with an enemy that is quite potent. 2 effective, convincing, cogent, persuasive, compelling, efficacious, telling, sound, valid, impressive: Their argument is potent enough to convince the biggest sceptics.
POTION|8|n. draught, brew, beverage, drink, philtre, potation, elixir, tonic, cup, dose, concoction, decoction: The old crone gave him a tiny bottle containing the love potion.
POTTER|6|v. Chiefly Brit dabble (in or with), toy with, trifle with, fribble, fool (with or about or around), fritter (away), mess (about or around or with), tinker (with), meddle (with), monkey (about or around or with), fidget (with), US putter (around or with), Colloq fiddle (about or around or with), footle (around or about): On Sundays I like to potter about in the garden.
POUNCE|10|v. 1 Often, pounce on or upon. spring (on or upon), leap (at or on), swoop down (on or upon), fall upon, jump (at or on), strike, take by surprise or unawares, attack, ambush, Colloq mug: As I rounded the corner, three youths pounced on me, stole my bag, and ran off. --n. 2 spring, leap, swoop, jump: The cat was on the mantel shelf in a single pounce.
POWDER|12|n. 1 dust; talc: I couldn't remember whether the jar contained cornflour or baking powder. She dabbed her body all over with scented powder. 2 take a (run-out) powder. run away, abscond, escape, vanish, disappear, Slang Brit scarper, do a moonlight flit, US take it on the lam: The cops are coming, so I'm taking a powder. --v. 3 pulverize, bray, grind, crush, pound, granulate, triturate, comminute, levigate: The rocks must first be crushed, then powdered. 4 sprinkle, besprinkle, dust, dredge, cover, coat: Lightly powder the top of the cake with icing sugar, and it is ready to serve.
PRAISE|8|n. 1 acclaim, approval, approbation, applause, plaudits, kudos, endorsement, acclamation, tribute, accolade, compliments, commendation, encomium, eulogy, panegyric, ovation: Sheila has received well-deserved praise for her work with paraplegic children. Would you expect me to sing the praises of my rival? 2 honour, glorification, adoration, exaltation, devotion, homage, worship, veneration, adulation, reverence, glory, hymn or song of praise, paean, hosanna: The king rejoiced and said, 'Praise be to God'. --v. 3 acclaim, approve, laud, applaud, endorse, pay tribute to, compliment, commend, eulogize, extol, honour, sing the praises (of): The speaker praised Read for his many contributions to linguistics. 4 worship, revere, reverence, exalt, glorify, adore, pay homage to, venerate, give thanks to, hallow: Praise the Lord and pass the ammunition.
PREACH|6|v. 1 deliver a sermon, evangelize, spread the Word or the Gospel; catechize: The Most Reverend John Attwood will preach next week at Winchester. 2 moralize, sermonize, advise, counsel, admonish, reprimand, lecture, harangue, pontificate; urge, inculcate, advocate: Mother used to preach to us about being charitable. Father preached restraint in all things.
PREFER|11|v. 1 favour, like better, fancy, lean or incline towards or on the side of, be inclined, be partial to, pick, select, opt for, choose, single out, take a fancy to, embrace, espouse, approve, esteem: Which flavour do you prefer, chocolate or coffee? I should prefer to take my own car. 2 present, offer, propose, proffer, advance, submit, tender, put forward, file, lodge, enter: They preferred charges against the hooligans for criminal damage.
PRETTY|9|adj. 1 comely, attractive, good-looking, nice-looking, appealing, lovely, cute, mignon(ne), graceful, fair, bonny, fetching, charming, winsome, beautiful, pulchritudinous, Colloq easy on the eye(s): A pretty girl is like a melody. That's a very pretty cottage. 2 tuneful, melodic, melodious, dulcet, musical, lyrical, harmonious, catchy, mellifluous, euphonious: He played a pretty tune on the piano. --adv. 3 rather, quite, fairly, moderately, reasonably, tolerably; somewhat; very, extremely, unbelievably, incredibly: The children put on a pretty good performance, I thought. He had become pretty fat since we last saw him.
PRICEY|13|adj. pricy, expensive, dear, costly, exorbitant, outrageous, excessive, extortionate, Colloq steep, Brit over the odds: The restaurant where she took him was certainly pricey, but the food was excellent.
PRIEST|8|n. priestess, clergyman or clergywoman, ecclesiastic, cleric, churchman or churchwoman, reverend, vicar, divine, man or woman of the cloth, man or woman of God, curate, confessor, minister (of the Gospel), servant of God, father, mother, holy man or woman, preacher, missionary, evangelist, abb÷, abbot or abbess, Colloq padre: The high priest muttered some incantations over the body of the sacrificial victim.
PRISON|8|n. jail or Brit also gaol, dungeon, oubliette, lock-up, penal institution, house of correction, correctional institution, reformatory, house of detention; confinement, detention; Old-fashioned reform school, Military guardhouse; Brit remand centre, detention centre, remand home, community home, Military glasshouse, Formal CHE (= 'community home with education on the premises'), Old-fashioned approved school; US penitentiary, Military brig; Archaic Brit bridewell; Slang clink, can, cooler, jug, stir, Brit quod, chokey or choky, US and Canadian pokey or poky; US pen, calaboose, slammer, hoosegow, Old-fashioned big house: He was released from prison last Friday after serving six months for burglary.
PRISSY|9|adj. fussy, precious, over-nice, finicky or finical, strait-laced, school-marmish, prim (and proper), prudish, squeamish, fastidious, Colloq old-maidish: He is awfully prissy about changing on the beach.
PROFIT|11|n. 1 Often, profits. gross or net profit, net or Brit also nett, return(s), gain, yield, revenue, proceeds, bottom line, surplus, excess, US take, Slang gravy, US vigorish: The profits are down in the third quarter owing to the higher interest rate. 2 advantage, avail, good, benefit, welfare, gain, value, interest, use, usefulness, Archaic or literary behoof: Let me recommend a book that you will find of some profit. --v. 3 advance, further, be of profit to, benefit, promote, aid, help, be advantageous or of advantage, serve, avail, improve: A few lessons from the club professional could profit your golf game. 4 Often, profit from. take advantage of, use, turn to advantage or account, exploit, utilize, make (good) use of, make capital (out) of, capitalize on, maximize, make the most of, Slang cash in on: I hope you profit from the experience. 5 clear, realize, earn, gain, Colloq make a killing, clean up, rake it in, make a bundle or a packet: Ernestine profited to the tune of ø100,000 on the sale of her house.
PROMPT|12|adj. 1 quick, ready, immediate, instantaneous, unhesitating, rapid, fast, swift, speedy, punctual, timely, on time, instant, summary, brisk, alacritous: No matter what the question, Gemma gave a prompt response. 2 alert, eager, ready, quick, expeditious, ready and willing, disposed, predisposed, unhesitating, keen, avid: Slow to praise, Alan was always prompt to criticize. --v. 3 urge, egg (on), prod, nudge, spur, exhort, incite, induce, impel, provoke, rouse, arouse, encourage, work or stir or fire up, move, motivate, cause, influence, put (someone) up to (something), coax, persuade, cajole, prevail upon or on, talk (someone) into (something): If he hadn't prompted her, she never would have apologized. 4 cue, remind, feed lines (to), help: She never could remember her lines and needed to be prompted. 5 bring about, inspire, occasion, give rise to, elicit, evoke, provoke, call forth, stimulate, awaken: The mention of hostages prompted a question about what was being done to gain their release. --n. 6 reminder, cue, hint, stimulus: He always needs a prompt to remind him to send his mother flowers on her birthday.
PROPEL|10|v. drive, impel, move, actuate, set in motion, get moving, move, push, thrust, force, send, launch, start: Each galley was propelled by huge oars. The capsule is propelled by a rocket. Job opportunities propelled her to move to Bristol.
PROPER|10|adj. 1 right, appropriate, apropos, apt, suitable, fit, fitting, befitting, becoming, suited, apposite, de rigueur, comme il faut, adapted, Literary meet: Is this the proper time to ask for a salary increase? 2 correct, accurate, exact, right, precise, orthodox, formal, expected, normal, usual, accepted, established, Old-fashioned Brit tickety-boo: Some insist that the only proper way to pronounce 'controversy' is with the stress on the first syllable. 3 decorous, dignified, genteel, fitting, right, de rigueur, appropriate, becoming, suitable, decent, seemly, due, correct, apt, comme il faut, conformist; gentlemanly, ladylike, polite, refined, punctilious, respectable: Jeans are not proper attire for dinner at La Hacienda. Do you call that proper behaviour for the president of a learned society? 4 fitting, suitable, correct, right, satisfactory, good, sensible: The kitchen is a proper place for the dishwasher, not the garage. Proper nutrition is very important. 5 complete, perfect, utter, thorough, thoroughgoing, out-and-out, unmitigated: He felt a proper fool for having locked his keys inside his car. 6 own, individual, separate, distinct, correct, specific, special, particular, respective; characteristic, distinctive, peculiar, singular, unique: When you have finished, return each book to its proper place. --quasi-adv. 7 strictly speaking or so-called, in the strict(est) or narrow(est) sense, only, solely, alone, on (its or someone's) own: Does the deed refer only to the house proper or are the outbuildings also included?
PSYCHE|9|n. soul, spirit, mind, ÷lan vital, divine spark, life-force, anima, self, subconscious, unconscious, personality, (essential) nature, inner man or woman or person, Philosophy pneuma: To Homer, the psyche was more like an alter ego, or conscience.
PUBLIC|12|adj. 1 communal, community, common, general, collective, universal, catholic, popular, worldwide: One need only compare early and new films to see how public taste has changed. 2 civil, civic, social, societal, community, communal: Although they may seem restrictive, these laws are for the public good. 3 accessible, open, free, unrestricted, non-exclusive, communal, community, available: He does much of his research in the public library. 4 open, manifest, exposed, overt, projected, plain, obvious, apparent, patent, clear, clear-cut, acknowledged, known, admitted, visible, viewable, conspicuous: Her public image is quite different from her private persona. 5 visible, viewable, conspicuous, unconcealed, unshrouded, flagrant, blatant: Has Alfie made a public spectacle of himself again? 6 well-known, prominent, eminent, celebrated, famous, renowned, noted, notable, influential, illustrious; notorious, disreputable, infamous: Invite a well-known public figure to open the exhibition if you can. 7 make public. See publish. --n. 8 community, people (at large or in general), citizenry, citizens, nation, populace, population, society, masses, multitude, hoi polloi, bourgeoisie, plebeians, proletariat, rank and file, middle class, third estate, commonalty, voters, man or woman in the street, Brit admass, US John Q. Public, Mr or Mrs Average, Colloq (any or every) Tom, Dick, and Harry: The public has responded generously to the charity appeal. 9 clientele or Brit also clientage, customers, custom, patrons, followers, supporters, buyers, consumers, purchasers, following, business, trade: How can you expect to attract the public without advertising? 10 sector, segment, special-interest group, portion: The commuting public will no longer tolerate these excessive train delays. 11 in public. publicly, openly, in the open, Colloq out of the closet: Jarvis has finally confessed in public what we long suspected privately.
PUCKER|6|v. 1 gather, draw together, compress, purse, crinkle, ruck, shirr, ruffle, corrugate, furrow, wrinkle, crease, screw up, tighten, contract, squeeze: Pucker up your mouth and give me a kiss. The shirring is done by puckering up the fabric and stitching it through with decorative thread. --n. 2 gather, tuck, pleat, pleating, shirr, shirring, ruffle, ruck, ruche, ruckle, wrinkle, wrinkling, fold, crinkle, crinkling: The curtains have some puckers that need ironing.
PULING|5|adj. whining, wailing, querulous, whimpering, snivelling, weeping, caterwauling: The third-class carriage was filled with chickens, pigs, and puling infants.
PULLEY|9|n. sheave, block: The rope is run through a system of pulleys, called a tackle, for lifting weights.
PUNISH|6|v. 1 penalize, chastise, castigate, discipline, chasten, scold, rebuke, take to task, reprove, dress down, admonish, correct, teach someone a lesson, give a lesson to, throw the book at, rap (someone's) knuckles, slap (someone's) wrist, have or US call on the carpet, Colloq take it out on (someone): A child's first taste of injustice is being punished for something she did not do. 2 imprison, jail or Brit also gaol, incarcerate, lock up; fine, mulct, amerce; lash, flog, beat, scourge, spank, whip, cane, birch, put across or US also turn over (one's) knee, US paddle; pillory, crucify; tar and feather, exile, banish, excommunicate, cashier, drum out of the corps; hang, execute, electrocute, draw and quarter, send to the gas chamber, Colloq put away, Slang Brit send down, US send up: They were punished for their crimes. 3 hurt, harm, injure, damage, abuse, maltreat, rough up, knock about or around, maul, thrash, beat, trounce, manhandle, batter, Slang beat up: The challenger punished the champion so badly that he could not come out for the tenth round.
PUNTER|8|n. 1 Brit better or US also bettor, gambler, gamester, player, speculator, backer, wagerer, Brit punt, Colloq crap-shooter: The punters are putting all their money on United to win the cup. 2 fellow, chap, person, individual, man or woman in the street; customer, client, buyer, Colloq guy, Brit bloke, geezer: The average punter likes a beer now and then.
PUPPET|6|n. 1 hand puppet, finger-puppet, glove puppet, doll; marionette, string puppet: The children built a little theatre and put on a puppet show. 2 figurehead, cat's-paw, pawn, dupe, tool, hireling, yes-man Colloq front (man), Slang stooge, sucker, patsy: He is without authority and is merely a puppet of the drug dealers. The army of occupation set up a puppet government to rule the country.
PURIFY|14|v. 1 cleanse, clean, clarify, wash, sanitize, depurate, decontaminate, freshen, disinfect; fumigate: The water is then purified by passing it through sand. 2 exonerate, exculpate, absolve, clear, redeem, shrive, lustrate, acquit, pardon, forgive, excuse: Before the aspirants can be admitted to the church they must be purified.
PURIST|8|n. pedant, precisian, formalist, stickler, blue-stocking, dogmatist, Pharisee, fanatic, Colloq die-hard, stuffed shirt: Language purists are often unaware of their own grammatical and semantic blunders.
PURITY|11|n. 1 pureness, faultlessness, correctness, flawlessness, perfection, spotlessness, cleanness, cleanliness, clarity; healthfulness, wholesomeness, salubrity; innocuousness, harmlessness: The purity of the drinking-water has been affected by the nearby chemical plant. 2 chastity, chasteness, virginity, virtuousness, virtue, morality, propriety, honesty, integrity, rectitude, properness, innocence, guilelessness, decency, decorousness, modesty, blamelessness, sinlessness: We never had any reason to doubt the purity of their character.
PURSUE|8|v. 1 follow, chase, go or run after, hunt (after or down or for or up), trace, trail, track, run down, take off after, dog, stalk, shadow, Brit chivvy or chivy or chevy, Colloq tail: The police pursued the escaped convicts across the moor. 2 follow (up or on with), trace, carry on with, continue, conduct, devote or dedicate oneself to, cultivate, undertake, practise, persist or persevere in, maintain, exercise, proceed with, adhere to, stay with, apply oneself to, Colloq stick with: If you pursue such a course, you are certain to land in jail. 3 aspire to, aim for, work for or toward(s), try or strive for, purpose, seek, search for, go in search of, quest after or for, be intent on, be bent upon or on: Jonathan is pursuing a doctorate in history at Oxford. 4 woo, (pay) court (to), seek the hand of, set (one's) cap for, Formal press (one's) suit with, pay suit or court or (one's) addresses to, Colloq set one's cap for, Slang chase (after): Jack is pursuing Jacquelyn with matrimony in mind.
PUTRID|9|adj. rotten, rotting, decomposed, decomposing, decayed, decaying, mouldy, mouldering, spoilt or spoiled, putrefied, putrescent, putrefying, foul, fetid, rank, tainted, corrupt: Only the vultures continued to hover about the putrid carcass.
PUZZLE|6|v. 1 baffle, bewilder, confuse, confound, mystify, flummox, perplex, nonplus, stymie, stump: I am completely puzzled by what you wrote in your last letter. 2 Usually, puzzle over. study, ponder (over), mull over, contemplate, meditate on or upon or over, consider, muse over or on, reflect on or over, think about or over or on: If you puzzle over it long enough, the problem may vanish of its own accord. 3 puzzle out. solve, decipher, crack (the code), unravel, work out, figure out, think through, sort out, unlock: I finally puzzled out the inscription on this old coin. It might take a while, but I can puzzle out the solution to this crossword. --n. 4 enigma, problem, question, paradox, poser, mystery, riddle, conundrum, Colloq brain-teaser: The puzzle is how the murder was committed when the door was locked from the inside.
QUAINT|4|adj. 1 curious, odd, strange, bizarre, peculiar, unusual, queer, uncommon, singular, unorthodox, eccentric, whimsical, offbeat, fanciful, outlandish, unconventional, fantastic: Her sitting-room was furnished in a quaint mixture of Gothic and Victorian styles. 2 old-fashioned, archaic, antiquated, out-dated, picturesque, antique: A rotund little figure appeared, dressed in the quaint clothing of another era.
QUARRY|5|n. prey, game, prize, object: The hunter's dogs had run their quarry to ground. Wealthy widows were regarded as fair quarry by the swindlers.
QUAVER|7|v. 1 tremble, quiver, shake, shiver, vibrate, waver, shudder, fluctuate, oscillate, flutter: His voice quavered with emotion as he described his rescue. --n. 2 trembling, tremble, quiver, quivering, tremor, shaking, vibration, wavering, break, fluctuation, oscillation: Only a slight quaver in her voice betrayed her feeling of panic.
QUEASY|7|adj. 1 uncomfortable, uneasy, nervous, apprehensive, ill at ease, troubled, worried, discomfited; doubtful, hesitant: I had a queasy feeling that I was being watched. The manager was a bit queasy about giving Denis so much responsibility. 2 sick, nauseous, nauseated, ill, bilious, queer, Colloq green around or about the gills, groggy, woozy: Catherine felt very queasy after the ride on the roller coaster.
QUENCH|2|v. 1 satisfy, slake, sate, surfeit, satiate, allay, appease: My thirst isn't quenched by those sweet fizzy drinks. 2 put out, extinguish, douse, smother, snuff out, stifle, kill, destroy, suppress, squelch, repress, overcome, subdue: Even the most totalitarian regime cannot entirely quench the fire of freedom in the hearts of the oppressed.
QUIVER|7|v. 1 shake, tremble, vibrate, shiver, quaver; shudder, tremor, oscillate, fluctuate, wobble: He felt his lips quivering as he told her that he was dying. The outcome of the contest quivered in the balance. --n. 2 tremble, quaver, shudder, spasm, shake, tremor, shiver: Pierced by the dart, the tiny bird fell to the earth, gave a little quiver, and lay still.
RABBLE|4|n. 1 mob, crowd, horde, throng, swarm, gang: We narrowly escaped the wrath of the rabble fighting the police in the square. 2 the rabble. Derogatory masses, proletariat, hoi polloi, commoners, peasantry, ragtag and bobtail, vermin, outcasts, riff-raff, scum, dregs (of society), lower classes, canaille, commonalty, Colloq trash, the great unwashed: He always refers to blue-collar workers as 'the rabble'.
RACIAL|4|adj. ethnic, genetic, genealogical, ethnological, folk; tribal; national: Bigots emphasize racial differences rather than racial similarities.
RAFFLE|4|n. lottery, draw, sweepstake or US sweepstakes, sweep or US sweeps: The church is holding a raffle for a new car next week.
RAGGED|5|adj. 1 rough, shaggy, shabby, seedy, tattered, unkempt, scraggy, torn, rent, ripped, frayed, worn (out), threadbare, patched, patchy, ravelled, Chiefly Brit tatty, Brit down at heel, US down at the heel(s), Colloq US frazzled, beat-up: On weekends, Charles put on his most ragged clothes to work in the garden. 2 rough, uneven, irregular, nicked, jagged; serrated, sawtooth(ed), zigzag, notched, toothed, denticulate(d), ridged: Every morning on his way to work, his first sight of the factory was the ragged edge of its roof. 3 worn out, tired, exhausted, on one's last legs, the worse for wear, dead tired, overtired, fatigued, weary, fagged out, spent, Colloq all in, dog-tired, Slang dead (on one's feet), (dead) beat, Brit knackered, US and Canadian pooped (out): The emergency crew was run ragged by thirty hours on duty without rest. 4 bad, rough, patchy, imperfect, shabby, messy, disordered, disorderly, run-down, battered, broken-down, neglected, deteriorated, dilapidated, Colloq beat-up: From its ragged condition, it's clear that the building isn't properly maintained. 5 rough, harsh, discordant, grating, rasping, hoarse, scratchy, croaking: His voice, once a beautiful lyric tenor, was ragged after years of alcoholism. 6 uneven, bad, poor, shabby, patchy: The guests gave a ragged rendition of 'Happy Birthday' as their host entered the room.
RAGMAN|9|n. rag-dealer, rag-picker, scrap dealer, Brit rag-and-bone man, knacker, US junk dealer, junkman: When the ragman comes round, give him those old curtains.
RAKISH|8|adj. dashing, jaunty, dapper, spruce, debonair, raffish, smart, breezy, flashy, chic, fashionable, elegant; dandy, foppish: Adjusting his trilby to a rakish angle, Peter strode along the boulevard.
RAMBLE|5|v. 1 amble, wander (off), stroll, saunter, walk, perambulate, go (off or away), travel, drift, range, rove, go or move about, hike, trek, Colloq mosey: Don't ramble too far as dinner will be ready soon. We used to ramble over those hills, but the area is now an industrial site. 2 meander, wander, digress, maunder: Fiona tends to ramble off the main topic of conversation. 3 Sometimes, ramble on. babble, chatter, gibber, rave, go on (and on), rattle on, Colloq Brit witter on, rabbit on or away: If you didn't stop him, Hugh would ramble on for ever about his grandchildren. --n. 4 stroll, amble, saunter, walk, promenade, constitutional, walkabout, tour, tramp, hike, trek: We went on a short ramble through the park.
RANCID|5|adj. stinking or reeking (to high heaven), foul-smelling, ill-smelling, evil-smelling, noisome, mephitic, miasmic or miasmal or miasmatic(al), smelly, rank, malodorous, fusty; nasty, disagreeable, odious, fetid or foetid, rotten, decayed, spoilt or spoiled, turned, bad, awful, sour, tainted, high, gamy, ripe, putrid, corrupt, stale: To rid your fridge of that rancid smell, wash it out with a solution of baking soda.
RANDOM|9|adj. 1 haphazard, chance, fortuitous, serendipitous, aleatory, arbitrary, casual, stray, occasional, indefinite, indiscriminate, non-specific, unspecific, unspecified, unordered, unorganized, undirected, unpremeditated, unplanned, accidental, uncalculated, unsystematic, adventitious, incidental, hit-or-miss: He used a computer program to generate random numbers. A random selection of slips was drawn from the drum and Madelaine's name was on one of them. 2 at random. randomly, haphazardly, fortuitously, by chance, serendipitously, arbitrarily, casually, occasionally, (every) now and then, (every) once in a while, irregularly, indefinitely, erratically, indiscriminately, unsystematically, adventitiously, incidentally, unpremeditatedly: They picked names from a hat at random. They drove up and down the road, firing at random.
RANKLE|10|v. gall, fester, irk, vex, plague, chafe, grate, nettle, torment, pain, hurt, provoke, anger, exasperate, get (to), upset: Although she had forgiven him, the insult still rankled.
RANSOM|8|n. 1 redemption, rescue, deliverance; release, liberation: The envoy was held to ransom by a fanatical band of zealots. 2 payment, payout, pay-off, price: The police refuse to reveal the amount of the ransom given to the kidnappers. --v. 3 redeem, rescue, release, deliver: The boy was ransomed for ø10,000.
RARELY|9|adv. seldom, infrequently, on rare occasions, hardly (ever), scarcely (ever), almost never, Colloq once in a blue moon: He rarely attends formal dinners at his club.
RARITY|9|n. 1 curiosity, oddity, curio, collector's item, find, treasure, conversation piece, Brit one-off, Colloq Brit oner: Among the rarities in his collection is a stuffed dodo. 2 unusualness, uncommonness, rareness, uniqueness, scarcity: The rarity of the first edition makes this book all the more valuable.
RASCAL|4|n. imp, devil, scamp, mischief-maker; rapscallion, rogue, scoundrel, cad, villain, blackguard, knave, good-for-nothing, ne'er-do-well, wastrel, scapegrace, dastard, wretch, Colloq scallywag or scalawag, Brit rotter, blighter, bounder: That little rascal has eaten all the cherry tarts. They've caught the rascals who were vandalizing parked cars.
RATHER|4|adv. 1 quite, very, somewhat, fairly, moderately, to a certain extent or degree or measure, to some extent or degree or measure, more or less, pretty, slightly, Colloq sort of, kind of: I suppose she was rather good-looking, but at that age I didn't pay much attention to girls. This coffee tastes rather strange. 2 preferably, sooner, instead, more readily or willingly: Given an option, I choose to live alone rather than marry. 3 would or Colloq US had rather. prefer, choose: Given a choice, I would rather live alone.
RATIFY|12|v. approve, sanction, endorse, support, corroborate, uphold, back (up), sustain, establish, validate, substantiate, verify, authenticate, guarantee, warrant, certify, affirm, ensure, clinch, settle: The pact was ratified by all members.
RATION|6|n. 1 share, quota, allotment, portion, helping, part, provision, measure, dole, percentage, amount: Each person is permitted a weekly fixed ration of butter, sugar, coffee, meat, etc. We shall have to go on short rations till we are rescued. 2 rations. supplies, provisions, food, provender, victuals, viands, eatables, edibles, comestibles, Brit commons: It was not till the third week with our rations running low that we really began to worry. --v. 3 Often, ration out. allot, apportion, dole (out), give out, distribute, deal out, mete out, parcel out, measure out, hand out: As water was in short supply, we had to ration it. One cup was rationed out to each of us every morning. 4 budget, schedule, restrict, control, limit: Water had to be rationed to one cup a day for each of us.
RATTLE|4|v. 1 clatter: An acorn dropped from an overhanging tree and rattled down the tin roof. 2 shake, vibrate, jar, joggle, jiggle: The wind was strong enough to rattle the windows in their frames. 3 unnerve, disconcert, discomfit, disturb, perturb, shake, discountenance, upset, agitate, put off, Chiefly US and Canadian faze: They are only trying to rattle us by saying that we might lose our jobs if we strike. 4 jounce, bounce, bump, jolt, speed, hurtle: The stagecoach came rattling down the road, swaying wildly. 5 rattle off. recite, list, utter, reel off, run through, enumerate, call off: The announcer rattled off a long list of trains cancelled because of the storm. 6 rattle on. chatter, babble, jabber, gibber, prate, prattle, blabber, cackle, blather, ramble, Chiefly Brit witter, natter, Slang US run off at the mouth: The speaker kept rattling on and on about the delights of collecting beer cans. --n. 7 clatter, racket, noise; rale or rçle, crackle, crackling; death-rattle: I heard the rattle of the beans and knew you were about to grind the coffee. The doctor said he didn't like the rattle in my chest. 8 clapper, sistrum, US noise-maker: Rattles have been used as musical instruments for thousands of years.
RAVAGE|10|v. 1 lay waste, devastate, ruin, destroy, demolish, raze, wreck, wreak havoc (up)on, damage: The hurricane ravaged outlying areas but did little damage in the city. 2 pillage, plunder, despoil, ransack, sack, loot: The police tried to prevent hooligans from ravaging the shops in the town centre. --n. 3 Usually, ravages. destruction, damage, depredation(s), devastation, wrecking, ruin, demolition: All about us we saw the ravages of war.
RAVINE|9|n. gorge, canyon or caÄon, pass, cleft, defile, gully or gulley, valley, Brit dialect clough, Scots linn, US gap, gulch, arroyo: At the spring thaw, torrents filled the ravines.
RAVING|6|adj. 1 mad, insane, berserk, raging, crazy, crazed, irrational, manic, maniacal, frantic, frenzied, delirious, hysterical; out of one's mind or head: He stood there shouting and screaming, like a raving lunatic. 2 extraordinary, outstanding, unusual, rare, uncommon, phenomenal, great, striking, ravishing, Colloq stunning: Diana had been a raving beauty in her time. --n. 3 Often, ravings. rant, ranting, bombast, pomposity, grandiloquence, magniloquence, rodomontade, rhetoric, bluster, blustering, claptrap, balderdash, puffery, bunkum, flatulence, hyperbole, vapouring, fustian, Colloq hot air, bunk: Why must we be subjected to the ravings of this politician? 4 gabble, babble, babbling, gibberish, Colloq gab: This is nothing more than the raving of a maniac.
RAVISH|7|v. 1 enrapture, delight, captivate, enthral, fascinate, charm, entrance, spellbind, bewitch, transport: I was ravished at the prospect of seeing you again. 2 rape, violate, have one's way with, deflower, defile: The soldiers attacked the village and ravished the women.
REALLY|7|adv. 1 genuinely, actually, truly, honestly, in reality, in actuality, in (point of) fact, as a matter of fact, surely, indeed, absolutely, definitely: Is he really going to do the high-wire act without a net? 2 indeed, actually, absolutely, unqualifiedly, positively, categorically, unquestionably, definitely, undeniably: She is really the musical one in the family. 3 in effect, in reality, actually, in fact, de facto, in the end, at bottom, in the final analysis, at the end of the day, Colloq deep down: Despite the sergeant's protests to the contrary, it was really Andrews who saved the platoon. 4 very, extremely, quite, exceptionally, remarkably, unusually, uncommonly, extraordinarily, exceedingly, Non-Standard real: I saw a really good film last night.
REASON|6|n. 1 justification, argument, case, explanation, rationale, ground(s), pretext, vindication, defence, why (and wherefore), Literary apologia, apology: What reason did they give for confiscating our luggage? 2 judgement, common sense, intelligence, sanity, sense(s), saneness, insight, perspicacity, percipience, understanding, rationality, reasoning, mind, intellect: He must have lost his reason to accuse you of embezzlement. 3 purpose, aim, intention, object, objective, goal, motive, end, point: His reason for leaving now is to be on time for the curtain. 4 excuse, rationalization: Ignorance of the law is not an accepted reason for breaking it. 5 by reason of. because of, on account of, owing to, by virtue of, as a result of; due to: He was declared unfit to stand trial by reason of insanity. 6 within or in reason. reasonable, sensible, justifiable, rational, fitting, proper, acceptable: We will consider any offer for the house that is within reason. --v. 7 think, conclude, calculate, reckon, estimate, figure (out), work out, deduce, act or think rationally or logically, ratiocinate, use (one's) judgement or common sense, use (one's) head, put two and two together: I reasoned that she would be arriving at the station at that very moment. Roy certainly hasn't lost his powers of reasoning. 8 reason with. argue with, remonstrate with, debate with, discuss with, talk over with, plead with, convince; persuade, dissuade, urge, prevail upon: George is very stubborn and can't be reasoned with.
REBATE|8|n. 1 discount, reduction, deduction, allowance, mark-down, cut-back, refund, repayment, Colloq US rake-off: This coupon entitles you to a rebate of ten per cent on the purchase of four new tyres. 2 kickback, percentage, rake-off, commission, cut, bribe, graft, Colloq chiefly US payola, US plugola: He gets a rebate of five per cent on every client he refers to the solicitor. --v. 3 discount, reduce, deduct, mark down, refund, repay; kick back: Periodicals rebate fifteen per cent of their gross advertising revenue to the agencies that place ads.
REBUFF|6|n. 1 rejection, snub, check, denial, repulse, refusal, dismissal, defeat, repudiation, slight, discouragement, Colloq cold shoulder, cut, put-down, brush-off, Slang US brush: Ellie's friendly approach was met with an abrupt rebuff. --v. 2 reject, snub, check, deny, repel, drive away, spurn, repulse, refuse, dismiss, defeat, repudiate, slight, ignore, send (someone) to Coventry, Colloq give (someone) the cold shoulder, cut, put (someone) down, brush (someone) off, give (someone) the brush-off, tell (someone) where to go or get off, tell (someone) where to get lost, Slang give (someone) his or her walking papers, freeze (someone) out , US give (someone) the brush, show (someone) the door: She rebuffed everyone who proposed marriage to her, preferring to remain a spinster.
REBUKE|12|v. 1 scold, reproach, admonish, reprove, reprimand, lecture, censure, chide, reprehend, berate, castigate, criticize, take to task, upbraid, revile, Colloq dress down, bawl out, give (someone) a piece of one's mind, haul (someone) over the coals, let (someone) have it, give (someone) hell or what for, tell (someone) off, tell (someone) where to get off, Brit carpet, tear (someone) off a strip, tick (someone) off, wig, blow (someone) up, give (someone) a wigging, US and Canadian rake (someone) over the coals, give (someone) the business, chew out: The headmaster severely rebuked those boys who had violated the school curfew. --n. 2 scolding, reproach, admonition, reproof, reprimand, lecture, censure, chiding, reprehension, berating, castigation, criticism, upbraiding, revilement, tongue-lashing, Colloq dressing-down, what for, Brit wigging, blow-up or blowing up, Slang hell: Rawlings was let off with nothing more than a rebuke.
RECALL|6|v. 1 remember, recollect, think back to, reminisce over or about, call to mind: I like to recall the happy days we had at Biarritz. 2 withdraw, retract, call back, summon: The legions guarding the frontier provinces were recalled to Rome. 3 rescind, cancel, annul, nullify, retract, withdraw, revoke, recant, take back, call back; disavow, disown, deny: Despite the fact that you might have been hasty, you cannot recall your promise. --n. 4 memory, recollection, remembering, remembrance: He had a loving and near-photographic recall of their holiday in the Alps. 5 withdrawal, recantation, cancellation, revocation, annulment, nullification, recision, rescission, retraction, repeal, disavowal, denial: The decision was made without any possibility of recall. 6 withdrawal, retraction, return: The manufacturer's recall of the shipment of defective toasters was voluntary.
RECANT|8|v. recall, forswear, deny, rescind, repudiate, disavow, disclaim, withdraw, revoke, retract, forsake, abandon, apostasize, renounce, abjure, take back: He was given three days to recant: otherwise, he would be executed for heresy.
RECEDE|9|v. 1 ebb, subside, fall or go or move back, abate, return, withdraw, retreat, back up: As the flood waters receded, people began to go back to their homes. 2 diminish, lessen, decline, dwindle, shrink, wane, fade, become more distant or less likely: The likelihood of our being rescued receded with each passing day.
RECENT|8|adj. late, latest, new, just out, brand-new, fresh; current, modern, up to date, late-model: This feature is now supplied as standard on all our more recent models. Recent arrivals will be interviewed by the committee.
RECESS|6|n. 1 alcove, niche, nook, cranny, bay, hollow: The statuette fits perfectly in that recess outside the library. 2 respite, rest, interlude, time off, break, intermission, breather, breathing-spell, pause; holiday, vacation: A brief recess has been scheduled to allow us to relax before continuing. 3 recesses. innermost reaches, corners, secret places, depths, penetralia: I searched for her name in the recesses of my mind.
RECIPE|6|n. 1 formula, prescription: Elizabeth gave me a marvellous recipe for chocolate cake. 2 plan, procedure, method, approach, technique, way, means, system, programme, modus operandi, Colloq US MO: The minister insists that his recipe for conquering inflation will work.
RECITE|4|v. 1 quote, repeat, present: In the old days, children were often called upon to recite poems they had learned by heart. 2 report, narrate, recount, relate, tell, describe, detail, chronicle, list, share, recapitulate, repeat, Colloq recap: Again I recited every particular of the hold-up that I could recall.
RECKON|4|v. 1 Often, reckon up. calculate, compute, add (up), figure (up), tally (up), sum up, total (up), work out or up: If you reckon up the bill, I'll pay it at once. 2 include, count, number, enumerate, list, name, consider, account, judge, deem, look upon, regard, view, think of, hold, gauge, estimate, appraise, value, rank, rate, class: I have always reckoned Arthur as being among my closest friends. 3 suppose, think, assume, presume, dare say, venture, imagine, fancy, consider, conclude, be of the opinion, US or colloq guess: She reckoned that no one could accuse her of idle chatter. 4 reckon on or upon. count on, rely on, depend on, lean on, trust in, take for granted, Colloq bank on: I was reckoning on your help, and I hope you won't disappoint me. 5 reckon with. a settle (accounts) with, take care of, look after, see or attend to, deal with, handle, pay attention to, think about: I have to go now, but I'll reckon with you later. b take into account or consideration, consider, contemplate, account for, remember, bear in mind: He thought he had got away with it, but he failed to reckon with Inspector Harris of the CID.
RECOIL|8|v. 1 jerk or jump or spring back, start, flinch, wince, shrink, blench, balk or baulk, shy (away) (from): He recoiled when confronted with the evidence of the gruesome experiments with live animals. 2 rebound, bounce back, resile, kick back: When fired, the gun recoiled, bruising his shoulder. --n. 3 kick, rebound, repercussion, backlash: He was unprepared for the violent recoil of the old gun.
RECORD|9|v. 1 write (down), transcribe, document, register, note, make a notation (of), take down, put or set down, log, chronicle, report, itemize, list, enumerate: I recorded the events of the day in my diary. 2 tell of, relate, recount, narrate, recite: The chronicle records an eyewitness account of the battle. --n. 3 recording, report, document, log, journal, memorandum, note, notation, minute(s), transactions, archive(s), annal(s), chronicle, diary, account, dossier, register, list, catalogue: Patricia has kept a careful record of all the men whose books she has ever read. 4 documentation, data, information, evidence; memorial, memento, souvenir: There is no record of your birth in the church archive. I took away a piece of the Berlin Wall as a record of my visit. 5 (best) performance, track record, accomplishment; time; distance; height: Her records for the 110-metre hurdles and the high jump still stand. 6 accomplishment(s), deed(s), history, reputation, curriculum vitae, CV, Colloq track record: He has a record of being late everywhere. His criminal record is none too savoury. 7 disc, recording, album, release, LP (= 'long playing'), 78, 331/3, 45, EP (= 'extended play'), maxisingle, compact disc, CD, Brit gramophone record, US phonograph record, Colloq single, Slang US platter: We put a jazz combo together and cut a few records last year. 8 off the record. confidential(ly), private(ly), not for publication, secret(ly), in confidence, unofficial(ly), sub rosa: We cannot publish his statement, which was off the record. Off the record, I'll tell you where Hazel is staying. --adj. 9 record-breaking, extreme: Last week we had a record snowfall.
RECOUP|10|v. regain, make good, make up, recompense, repay, recover; refund, redeem, reimburse, remunerate: From his profits on the Culpepper deal, he recouped all the losses he had sustained when Cranston Ltd failed.
REDEEM|7|v. 1 reclaim, recover, regain, repossess, retrieve, get back, buy back, repurchase; pay off, Brit clear: He went into the pawn shop to redeem the gold watch. 2 rescue, ransom, deliver, free, save, liberate, set free, emancipate, release: He was able to redeem the boy only after paying the kidnappers. 3 exchange, cash (in), collect on, trade in: These coupons must be redeemed before the end of the month. 4 rehabilitate, save, reform, convert, absolve, restore to favour, reinstate: She can be redeemed only by atoning for her sins. 5 make amends for, make up for, atone for, redress, compensate for, offset, make restitution for: Do you think that 200 hours of community service was enough to redeem his crime of snatching handbags in the shopping centre? 6 perform, fulfil, keep, make good (on), discharge, satisfy, abide by, keep faith with, be faithful to, hold to, carry out, see through: Helen is here to redeem her promise to help at the charity bazaar.
REDUCE|9|v. 1 cut (back), cut down (on), decrease, diminish, moderate, abate, lessen, shorten, truncate, abbreviate, abridge, curtail, crop, trim, compress, restrict, limit, stunt: We must reduce expenses this year. 2 ease (up on), let up (on), decrease, mitigate, tone down, slacken up (on): It will reduce the burden of your costs if you share with me. 3 lose weight, slim (down), diet, trim down, Chiefly US slenderize: You'll have to reduce to fit into that dress, Betty. 4 change, modify, adjust, turn, convert; break down or up, grind, rub, triturate, pulp, powder: Payment of the debt reduced me to poverty. The first step is to reduce the liquid to a thick extract. 5 cut, decrease, trim, bring down, lower, drop, mark down, slash, Colloq knock down: The prices on these shoes have been reduced for a quick sale. 6 demote, degrade, lower, downgrade, break; humble; Military US and Canadian bust: He was reduced in rank from sergeant to private. 7 diminish, lessen, bring down, depreciate, subdue, belittle, minimize: He was reduced in her estimation when she saw the deprecating way his friends treated him. 8 Medicine set, adjust, reset: The doctor caused little pain when he reduced her dislocated finger.
REFINE|9|v. 1 purify, cleanse, clear, clarify, decontaminate: They continued to refine the liquid till all the impurities were gone. 2 cultivate, civilize, polish, improve, elevate, perfect: He is trying to refine his speech by getting rid of his country accent. 3 hone, sharpen, concentrate, focus, subtilize: We ought to refine our argument for higher wages before approaching the management.
REFORM|11|v. 1 improve, better, ameliorate, meliorate, emend, rectify, correct, mend, repair, fix, remedy, redo, revise, revolutionize, rehabilitate, remodel, refashion, renovate, reorganize, rebuild, recover: The first thing to be done was to reform the political system. 2 mend one's ways, turn over a new leaf, Colloq go straight: After three convictions in as many years, there seemed little chance that he would reform. --n. 3 improvement, betterment, amelioration, melioration, emendation, rectification, correction, rehabilitation, change, modification, perestroika, reorganization, renovation, recovery: Many believe that prison reform would reduce crime by second offenders. The many reforms introduced by the president were condemned by hard-line party members.
REFUGE|10|n. 1 sanctuary, shelter, haven, asylum, protection, cover, retreat, harbour, security, safe house, stronghold, citadel, bolt-hole, hideaway, hide-out, Colloq hidy-hole or hidey-hole: The abandoned mine served as a refuge from the storm. 2 excuse, pretext, resort, recourse, ruse, trick, stratagem, subterfuge, dodge, evasion, expedient: Patriotism is often the last refuge of a scoundrel.
REFUSE|9|v. 1 decline, reject, spurn, repudiate, turn down, rebuff, give (something) the thumbs down, US turn thumbs down on, Colloq pass by or up: They refused our application to build a hotel here. Did he actually refuse a knighthood? 2 deny, deprive (of), withhold, disallow, not allow or permit: They refused me my right to vote.
REGALE|7|v. entertain, amuse, delight, divert, indulge, please, gratify, captivate, fascinate, entrance, enchant, spellbind, bewitch, charm, enrapture: She regaled them with entertaining tales of her travels.
REGARD|8|v. 1 view, look at or upon or on, observe, note, notice, watch, eye, keep an eye on, gaze at or upon, stare at: The children regarded the magician's performance with great interest. 2 contemplate, consider, perceive, view, look upon or on, treat: The lion looked at me as if he regarded me as his dinner. Smith appears to regard his appointment as treasurer as a licence to steal. 3 respect, esteem, value: Gwen's friends regard her very highly indeed. 4 consider, view, look upon or on, think (of), judge, deem, rate, believe (to be), gauge, see, pay heed or attention to, esteem, account, take into account, imagine, reckon, evaluate: I don't regard her as a likely suspect. He regards his professor as his mentor. 5 concern, relate to, be relevant to, pertain to, apply to, refer to, affect, have (a) bearing on, bear on or upon, involve, have to do with, go for: Our discussion regarded the disappearance of ø10 from petty cash. --n. 6 reference, relation, relevance, relevancy, association, pertinence, application, bearing, connection, link, tie-in: We would like to talk to you with regard to your application for the post of assistant editor. 7 respect, consideration, attention, reverence, veneration, awe, deference, honour, favour, esteem, high opinion, approval, approbation, appreciation, admiration, affection, fondness: They have no regard for the law. 8 point, particular, respect, aspect, detail, matter: In this regard, I must take your past record into consideration. 9 care, concern, thought, consideration, respect, sympathy, feeling, sentiment; heed, attention, notice, mind: The police behave as if they have no regard for the safety of the hostages. This work reflects the artisan's regard for detail. 10 regards. best wishes, good wishes, compliments, greetings, respects, salutations, Archaic devoirs: Please give my regards to your father.
REGIME|9|n. r÷gime, regimen, reign, government, rule, regulation, administration, direction, order, leadership, management, system, discipline: Persistent offenders were given harsh penalties under the new regime.
REGION|7|n. 1 district, area, zone, territory, division, locality, sector, section, tract, part, dominion, precinct, province, quarter, department: Each region is under the suzerainty of a powerful dictator. 2 sphere, territory, domain, province, field, ambit, pale, jurisdiction, bailiwick: She is an expert in the region of climatology.
REGRET|7|v. 1 rue, mourn, lament, bemoan, bewail, repent, be or feel sorry for, feel remorse for, feel or be remorseful over, be or feel upset, never forgive oneself, deplore, deprecate, weep or cry over: You will regret speaking to me that way! The management regrets any inconvenience caused by the redecoration of the restaurant. --n. 2 Sometimes, regrets. repentance, guilt, sorrow, disappointment, contrition, remorse, regretfulness, (pang or pangs of) conscience, self-reproach, self-condemnation, qualm, second thoughts, rue, ruefulness, grief, woe, sadness, mournfulness, Literary dolour: He felt no regret for his evil deeds. Do you ever have any regrets over the way you treated him? 3 regrets. refusal, non-acceptance, non-consent, US turn-down: Thank you for the invitation, but I must tender my regrets.
REHASH|7|v. 1 rework, go over again, restate, redo, rearrange, reshuffle, reuse: Heverton has nothing new to offer - he just keeps on rehashing the same old material. --n. 2 reworking, restatement, redoing, rearrangement, reshuffle, reshuffling, reuse, rewording: Her speech was a mere rehash of what she's said scores of times already.
REJECT|15|v. 1 decline, refuse, disallow, spurn, veto, turn down, give (something) the thumbs down, set aside, US turn thumbs down (on); deny, repudiate, renounce, rebuff, shun, brush aside, turn a deaf ear to, will not hear of: Jim has rejected my plan for a holiday in Torremolinos. She rejects any suggestion that she might be wrong. 2 refuse, repel, repulse, spurn, rebuff, say no to, turn down, decline, brush aside; jilt, drop, dismiss, throw over, give (someone) the cold shoulder, show (someone) the door, send (someone) away or on his or her or their way, turn one's back on, Slang give (someone) the brush-off or US also the brush, give (someone) his or her walking papers, Brit give (someone) the boot: Ted proposed, but Alice rejected him. 3 throw away or out, discard, disown, jettison, eliminate, scrap, Colloq junk, scratch: The inspector rejects all defective merchandise. --n. 4 second, irregular, discard, cast-off: The rejects are sold at reduced prices in the factory shop.
RELATE|6|v. 1 associate, connect, couple, link, tie, ally, correlate, coordinate: Volta first enabled us to relate the forces of chemistry and electricity. 2 recount, narrate, tell, report, present, describe, recite, detail, set forth, communicate, divulge, impart, reveal, delineate, make known, give an account of, rehearse: It was not till years later that Olivia related to me the strange events of that night. 3 apply to, coordinate with, respect, regard, bear upon or on, have a bearing on, have reference to, have to do with, pertain to, refer to, appertain to, belong with or to: Does your comment really relate to the matter in hand? 4 Often, relate to. be in or en rapport with, understand, empathize, sympathize, communicate with, identify with, grasp, comprehend, be in tune with, deal with, handle, cope with, Colloq dig, tune in to, be hip to, be turned on to, be or get into: I have been having trouble relating to my new psychiatrist. Your favourite music is reggae? - Man, I can relate to that.
RELENT|6|v. relax, soften, yield, give, give way or ground, bend, comply, acquiesce, compromise, capitulate, come round, be merciful, show pity or compassion, melt, show mercy, succumb: They finally relented and allowed me to have visitors.
RELIEF|9|n. 1 ease, easing, abatement, easement, deliverance, remedy, redress, alleviation, release, remission, assuagement, liberation, recess: We would all welcome relief from this blistering heat. Contributions for the relief of famine in Africa would be most welcome. 2 aid, help, support, assistance, succour; comfort: How many troops can we send for the relief of the besieged garrison? 3 elevation, projection, contrast, prominence; bas-relief or basso-rilievo ('low relief'), mezzo-rilievo ('medium relief'), alto-rilievo ('high relief'): The Greek reliefs brought to England by Lord Elgin are on display at the British Museum. 4 substitute, surrogate, replacement, alternate, locum (tenens), stand-in; understudy, double: I wish that my relief would arrive so I could go home.
RELISH|4|n. 1 enjoyment, pleasure, delight, gusto, eagerness, avidity, anticipation, taste, appetite, zest, liking, appreciation, fondness, fancy, partiality, preference: The children attacked the birthday cake with great relish. --v. 2 enjoy, delight in, take pleasure in, fancy, be partial to, appreciate, savour, look forward to, anticipate: After all that dining out, I'd really relish a home-cooked meal. I don't relish having to tell her she is being made redundant.
REMARK|12|n. 1 note, notice, observe, perceive, regard, look at, take notice or note of: His friends remarked his tired and overworked appearance and suggested that he should take a holiday. 2 comment (on or upon), say, observe, reflect, mention, declare, state, assert: Carrie remarked that she had seen Ted the night before.
REMEDY|12|n. 1 cure, treatment, therapy, antidote, counteractant, countermeasure, medication, medicament, medicine, prescription, drug, pharmaceutical, cure-all, panacea, nostrum, restorative, specific: What remedy did the doctor recommend? 2 cure, antidote, cure-all, panacea, nostrum, countermeasure, relief, redress, answer, solution: Knowledge is the only remedy for superstition. --v. 3 cure, treat, heal, mend, restore, relieve, soothe, control, ease, mitigate, alleviate: The ointment will remedy the itching but not the infection causing it. 4 correct, rectify, reform, improve, ameliorate, redress, repair, put or set right, straighten out: How can I remedy a situation that has already gone too far?
REMIND|9|v. prompt, cue, cause to remember, jog the memory, put in mind of: Remind me to set the clock back an hour tonight.
REMISS|6|adj. slack, careless, negligent, neglectful, heedless, unheeding, inattentive, unmindful, thoughtless, forgetful, unthinking, slow, indolent, lazy, dilatory, delinquent: You were remiss in failing to turn off the bath water.
REMOTE|8|adj. 1 distant, far-away, far-off, removed, outlying, inaccessible: The more remote the transmitter, the weaker the signal. 2 lonely, isolated, God-forsaken, secluded, out-of-the-way, sequestered, tramontane, ultramontane: They spent their holiday on a remote island in the Indian Ocean. 3 unfamiliar, obscure, arcane, recondite, subtle, alien, far-fetched, unusual, unlikely: Her writing is scattered with references remote to the average reader's experience. 4 unrelated, irrelevant, inappropriate, unconnected, outside: Her conclusions were not remote from what we now know to be the truth. 5 slight, faint, foggy: I haven't the remotest idea what you're talking about. 6 slight, faint, slender, insignificant, slim, small, meagre, outside, poor, inconsiderable, negligible, improbable, unlikely, implausible: There is only a remote chance that the experiment will succeed. 7 aloof, detached, withdrawn, reserved, indifferent, standoffish, abstracted: He keeps himself quite remote from the hurly-burly of everyday life. 8 early, ancient, far-removed, distant: The archaeopteryx is a remote ancestor of modern birds.
REMOVE|11|v. 1 take off, doff, shed, cast off: Gentlemen are requested to remove their hats in her presence. 2 take away, get rid of, carry away or off, shift; transfer: When I arrived this morning, my desk had been removed. The threat of war has been removed. Kindly remove your elbows from the table. 3 obliterate, delete, erase, expunge, eradicate, efface, eliminate, take off, wipe or rub out, wipe or rub off, get rid of: Use chemicals to remove the graffiti from the wall. 4 murder, assassinate, kill, slay, execute, exterminate, eliminate, liquidate, eradicate, massacre, slaughter, do away with, dispose of, get rid of, purge, Slang rub or wipe out, do in, bump off, US waste: We brought in some of the boys to remove the competition. 5 discharge, dismiss, depose, unseat, displace, expel, oust, turn out, get rid of, purge, Colloq fire, sack, kick out: Andrews must be removed from his job before he does any more harm. 6 relocate, move, transfer, shift: I removed to a quieter place where I could write in peace. 7 take out, unfasten, detach, disconnect, separate, undo: They have to remove the transmission to overhaul it. --n. 8 distance, space, interval, separation: They tried to keep the girls and the boys at some remove from one another.
RENDER|7|v. 1 depict, picture, represent, reproduce, portray, create, produce, do, execute, make, accomplish, achieve: The artist rendered this portrait of the family from a photograph. 2 make, cause to be or become: The news of winning the lottery rendered me speechless. 3 give (up), yield (up), surrender, relinquish, resign, cede, deliver, hand over, tender, offer, proffer, present, furnish, provide: The inscription on the tomb has still not rendered up its secret. To Caesar will I render my legions and my horse. 4 play, perform: She rendered a fugue most beautifully on a harpsichord. 5 deliver, return: The jury rendered a verdict of Guilty. 6 translate, decode, decipher, transcribe, convert, explain, interpret, put, restate, reword, rephrase: She rendered the passage into idiomatic English. 7 deliver, hand in, present, offer, proffer, furnish, provide, tender: They rendered their invoice for the work already done. 8 Usually, Brit render down. melt, clarify, extract: The fat must be rendered down before it can be used for making soap.
RENEGE|7|v. 1 Cards revoke: When you renege you fail to follow suit. 2 go back on, back out, default, repudiate, go back on or break (one's) promise or word, recant, abrogate, abjure, Slang welsh (on): You swore you would keep your word, and now you're reneging.
RENOWN|9|n. fame, celebrity, glory, distinction, esteem, acclaim, reputation, prominence, eminence, note, mark, honour, prestige, repute, ÷clat, lustre, illustriousness, stardom: She enjoys great renown as a rock star.
REPAIR|8|v. 1 mend, patch (up); renew, put or set right, restore, fix (up), service, put (back) in or into working order, vamp, revamp, adjust: Can you repair the tear in my trousers? I must remember to ask the garage to repair the brakes on my car. --n. 2 mend, patch; restoration, fixing (up), servicing, improvement, adjustment, renovation, revamping, renewal: The cost of the repairs to our roof after the storm was covered by our insurance. 3 form, condition, fettle, state, working order, Colloq shape, Brit nick: The engine, I'm afraid, has not been kept in good repair.
REPEAL|8|v. 1 revoke, recall, rescind, reverse, cancel, annul, nullify, invalidate, void, set aside, abolish, abrogate, Law vacate: They have repealed the rule forbidding guests to wear shorts in the restaurant. --n. 2 revocation, recall, rescission, rescindment, reversal, cancellation, annulment, nullification, invalidation, voiding, abolition, abrogation: Alcoholic beverages were forbidden in the US until the repeal of Prohibition.
REPEAT|8|v. 1 reiterate, restate, echo, retell, recite, quote, rehearse, recount, recapitulate, Colloq recap: Would you please repeat to Anne what you told me? 2 duplicate, reproduce, replicate: History repeated itself on the playing field here today, when Queens Park Rangers defeated Manchester United, 2-0. --n. 3 repetition, duplicate, copy, duplication, replication, reproduction, replica, rerun, rebroadcast, replay, encore, reprise: This is a repeat of a show we saw last year.
REPENT|8|v. regret, feel contrition, lament, bemoan, bewail, be sorry, rue, feel remorse, feel remorseful or penitent, show penitence: She repented having reported him to the police. Now that the evil deed is done he can but repent.
REPORT|8|n. 1 account, description, story, article, write-up, piece, statement, dispatch or despatch, communication, communiqu÷, announcement, narrative, record; news, information: Stanley hasn't yet sent in the full report of his meeting with John. Is there any report from the front? 2 explosion, bang, boom, shot, gunshot, gunfire, backfire, discharge, crack, blast, detonation: In the distance we heard the report of a gun, and later a muffled explosion. --v. 3 relate, recount, describe, narrate, tell of, detail, give an account of, write up, document: Our man in Kuala Lumpur reported a disturbance in a remote village. 4 publish, promulgate, publicize, put out, announce, set forth, reveal, disclose, divulge, announce, circulate, make public, broadcast: Two newspapers and a television station reported the arrest of the suspect. 5 arrive, appear, surface, check in, sign in, clock in or on, turn up, come in, US report in: We were asked to report for duty at 0800 on Friday. 6 report on. investigate, cover, examine, explore, look into, inquire into, check into or on, check (up) on, research, study, probe, scrutinize, Slang check out, Brit suss out: The new journalist was assigned to report on allegations of bribery in the council.
REPOSE|8|n. 1 rest, inactivity, calm, respite, tranquillity, quiet, restfulness, peace, relaxation: A half hour's repose would be welcome after a long day coping with lively toddlers. 2 sleep, nap, doze, catnap, siesta, slumber, Colloq forty winks, snooze, Slang zizz, shut-eye: The short repose refreshed, and she felt ready to tackle anything. 3 composure, calmness, calm, serenity, equanimity, poise, self-possession: He became angry in a flash, his face changing from quiet repose to livid distortion. --v. 4 lie, abide, be, lodge, rest: The power to make the modifications reposes with you.
RESCUE|4|v. 1 save, deliver, (set) free, liberate, let go (free), release, (let) loose: We rescued all the men who were being held prisoner. Jane was rescued by a very handsome lifeguard. --n. 2 deliverance, saving; freeing, liberating, release: The seaman's rescue was conducted by a navy helicopter team. Because of the heavy guard, the prisoners' rescue is out of the question.
RESENT|6|v. feel embittered or bitter about, feel envious or jealous of, begrudge, have hard feelings about, be displeased or disgruntled at, be angry about: I resent having to go to work while you sit about the house all day.
RESIGN|7|v. 1 quit, leave, go, abdicate, give notice; retire (from), abandon, give up, forsake, hand over, yield up, renounce, relinquish, let go, release, vacate, surrender, deliver up, turn over: Amanda resigned because she was offered a better job elsewhere. Anthony refused to resign the last of his responsibilities till he was ninety. 2 resign (oneself) (to). reconcile (oneself) (to), be or become resigned or reconciled (to), accommodate (oneself) (to), adjust (oneself) (to), adapt (oneself) (to), acclimatize or acclimate (oneself) (to), submit (oneself) (to): Knowing that no one had ever escaped from the prison, he resigned himself to his fate.
RESIST|6|v. 1 stop, hinder, prevent, hold out (against), be proof (against), keep or hold at bay, hold the line (against), thwart, impede, block, obstruct, inhibit, restrain, preclude, check, control, curb, stem, bridle, hold back, withstand, weather, last (against), endure, outlast, stand up (to or against); combat, fight (against), battle, countervail (against), counteract, oppose, rebuff, defy: He was jailed for attempting to resist arrest. It is pointless to resist. 2 refuse, deny, turn down, forgo: I cannot resist a rich sweet for dessert.
RESORT|6|n. 1 spa, retreat, Chiefly Brit watering-place: We go to a lovely resort in the Alps every summer. 2 resource, backup, reserve, refuge, place to turn, alternative, remedy: He will see a doctor only as a last resort. --v. 3 resort to. have recourse to, turn to, look to, fall back on, repair to, take to, frequent, patronize, attend; visit, haunt, hang out in: I have to resort to father for a small loan. She was said to be resorting to the lowest dens in the Casbah.
RESULT|6|n. 1 outcome, consequence, effect, end (result), fruit; conclusion, upshot, issue, development, sequel, follow-up, consequence, denouement or d÷nouement: It will take years to evaluate the results of the new educational curriculum. As a result of his speeding ticket, his driving licence was suspended. --v. 2 Often, result from. develop, emerge, follow, happen, occur, come (about), come to pass, arise, evolve, be produced: Severe burns can result from allowing children to play with matches. The mixture that results may be highly volatile. 3 result in. end, conclude, culminate, terminate: The explosion resulted in a heavy loss of life. The experience gained often results in better safety devices.
RESUME|8|v. continue, carry on, take up again, pick up (where one left off): After prison, it is not easy to resume one's life where it left off. When the audience quieted, the speaker resumed.
RETARD|7|v. 1 slow (down or up), hold up or back, set back, hinder, impede, delay, keep back, stall, thwart, balk, block, restrict, hold in check, frustrate, interfere with: Growth of the economy was severely retarded by the war. --n. 2 Offensive and derogatory idiot, moron, fool, imbecile, dunce, Slang chiefly US and Canadian jerk: Why she invites that retard to her parties I can't imagine.
RETIRE|6|v. 1 withdraw, rusticate, go off or away, take off, retreat; hibernate, aestivate or US estivate, seclude or sequester or cloister oneself: I think I'll retire to some mountain-top to finish my book. 2 stop or give up work(ing), be pensioned off, (be) put out to grass or pasture, take the golden handshake, be given the gold watch, go on social security, go on a pension, be superannuated, go out of circulation: Gemma Frobisher has retired from her job in the bakery, and is now living with her daughter in Norfolk. 3 go or take to (one's) bed or bedroom, (go to) sleep, lie down, (take one's) repose, (take a) nap, put one's feet up, Colloq take it easy, snooze, count sheep, have a zizz, catch or grab some shut-eye, get or take forty winks, US catch or log a few zees (Z's), Slang hit the sack, sack out, hit the hay, Brit kip, doss down: I usually retire around midnight.
RETORT|6|n. 1 response, reply, rejoinder, answer, riposte, rebuttal, Colloq comeback: Faced with criticism of the novel, the author's retort was a four-letter word. --v. 2 fling or hurl back, rejoin, answer back, riposte, rebut, counter, come back with, return, respond, answer, reply, retaliate: 'And don't expect a Christmas present from me, either!', she retorted vehemently.
RETURN|6|v. 1 come or go back, revert, turn back: She is returning to her old habits. I shall return to this subject later if I have time. 2 come back, reappear, resurface, crop up again, turn or show up again, put in an appearance again; recur, reoccur, Colloq pop up again: Will he return before March? The symptoms returned. 3 replace, put back, restore, give back, bring or carry back: The missing books have mysteriously been returned. 4 exchange, bring back or carry back: You may return any merchandise, for any reason, for refund or exchange, within ten days of its purchase. 5 yield, earn, gain, profit, benefit: Where else can you find a secure investment that returns more than 15 per cent? 6 deliver, render, give, offer, turn in, proffer, report: The jury returned a verdict of Not Guilty. --n. 7 recurrence, reappearance, repetition, renewal, recrudescence, resurfacing, re-emergence: There was a return of the symptoms when I stopped taking the medicine. 8 replacement, replacing, restoration, restoring, restitution: We shall see to the return of the stolen items to their rightful places. 9 Sometimes, returns. yield, earnings, profit, gain, benefit, income, revenue, proceeds, interest, takings, results: The return on my investment was almost 100 per cent! 10 arrival, advent, coming, home-coming: A small crowd had gathered to await his return. 11 reciprocity, reciprocation, repayment, recompense, reimbursement, compensation, payment, reparation, indemnity, indemnification, consideration, amends, redress, requital: If I give you my bike, what will I get in return?
REVAMP|13|v. overhaul, redo, recondition, renovate, repair, fix, do up, refit, refurbish, restore, rehabilitate, US fix up: To bring it into line with the 21st century, the constitution may need to be revamped completely.
REVEAL|9|v. expose, display, divulge, disclose, show; make known, let on, let out, let it be known, let slip, communicate, give vent to, air, ventilate, leak (out): The increasing light of dawn revealed a no-man's-land of utter devastation. The book is said to reveal everything you would prefer not to know about factory-farming.
REVERE|9|v. adore, adulate, reverence, venerate, worship, idolize, enshrine, sanctify, beatify, glorify, esteem, admire, respect, honour: He was revered as the founding father of British psychology.
REVERT|9|v. return, come or go back, take or pick up again, lapse, backslide, regress, relapse, retreat: He reverted to his old beliefs about male superiority.
REVIEW|12|v. 1 survey, examine, regard, look at, study, con, consider, weigh, inspect, look over, scrutinize: Would you be good enough to review the work of the new employees? She is coming to review the troops this weekend. 2 re-examine, reconsider, go over again, look at or over again, reassess: Billings reviewed once more all the bad things he had done in his lifetime. 3 criticize, critique, assess, judge, evaluate, give one's opinion of, comment on or upon, discuss: Who reviewed your latest book? --n. 4 criticism, critique, review article, assessment, judgement, evaluation, commentary, study, comment, notice: The play received rave reviews from almost all the critics. 5 survey, examination, study, consideration, inspection, scrutiny, analysis; reviewing, reading: After a detailed review of the circumstances, we have decided to let you off easy this time, Finnegan. 6 re-examination, reconsideration, rehashing or rehash, post-mortem, reassessment, rethinking, rethink: Why do you always insist on a review of all the bidding on every hand, whenever we play bridge? 7 periodical, journal, magazine: Have you read Stonehouse's article in the latest Birmingham Review? 8 parade, procession, array, cavalcade, march past, fly-past or chiefly US flyover: A great naval review was held at Spithead.
REVISE|9|v. 1 edit, emend, improve, correct, rectify, modify, revamp, redact, rework, overhaul, update; rewrite: A revised edition of the dictionary has been published every ten years. 2 alter, change, amend: Since hearing him sing, I have been forced to revise my taste in music.
REVIVE|12|v. 1 (re)awaken, wake (up), come or bring (a)round, waken, resuscitate; recover, (re)gain consciousness: Dashing cold water in his face revived him at once. I revived to find her leaning over me. 2 reawaken, stir up again, renew, resume, reopen, refresh: You can blame Andy for reviving the feud between our families. 3 bring back, reactivate, renew, resurrect, re-establish, resume, reopen, revitalize, breathe life into, reinvigorate, rejuvenate: Perhaps we ought to revive the practice of putting hooligans, vandals, and delinquents into stocks in the market square.
REVOKE|13|v. cancel, deny, invalidate, annul, declare null and void, void, nullify, negate, repudiate, renounce, rescind, repeal, recall, recant, quash, veto, set aside, abrogate, abolish, withdraw, take back, retract: He warned that if they refused to comply with local authority rulings he had the power to revoke their licence.
REVOLT|9|n. 1 rebellion, revolution, uprising, mutiny, insurrection, coup d'÷tat, putsch, take-over: The council ordered the secret police to suppress the revolt. --v. 2 rebel, rise up, mutiny; protest, dissent: After years of oppression, the people revolted and deposed their leaders. 3 repel, offend, disgust, shock, horrify, repulse, nauseate, sicken: I was revolted by the poverty and sickness I saw in that country.
REWARD|10|n. 1 award, favour, recompense, compensation, return, payment, pay, requital: For your good deeds you will have to seek your reward in heaven; dishonesty is recompensed here on earth. 2 prize, award, tribute, honour, Literary guerdon: The Victoria Cross was instituted as a reward for military valour in 1856. 3 retribution, punishment, just deserts, Colloq comeuppance: Hanging was the reward of treason. --v. 4 recompense, compensate, pay, repay, remunerate, redress, requite, make (something or it) worth someone's while: Only if they reward him will Fuller give information leading to the capture of the thief.
REWORD|10|v. paraphrase, rephrase, put into different words, put another way, express differently, revise, recast, rewrite: Perhaps if you reworded your request in politer terms it might get more sympathetic consideration.
RHYTHM|7|n. tempo, beat, cadence or cadency, throb, throbbing, accent, accentuation, time, timing, stress or rhythmic(al) pattern, measure, metre, pulse, lilt, Music downbeat, thesis, upbeat, arsis: The song is in samba rhythm.
RICHES|4|n.pl. wealth, affluence, opulence, plenty, prosperity, abundance, fortune, means, resources; lucre, pelf: It was rumoured that the family had acquired its apparently endless riches in the slave trade, in the 18th century.
RICHLY|7|adv. 1 sumptuously, lavishly, luxuriously, splendidly, elaborately, exquisitely, elegantly, superbly: The flat was richly appointed with Chinese antiques, thick oriental carpets, and silk hangings. 2 well, thoroughly, amply, fully, appropriately, fittingly, condignly: Shirley's work was at last given the recognition it so richly deserved.
RIDDEN|4|adj. afflicted or harassed or affected or dominated by, infected or infested with: They were shocked when they first came to this drought-ridden province of Northern Ethiopia. Only foreign aid can salvage the debt-ridden economy of this state.
RIDDLE|4|n. conundrum, puzzle, enigma, poser, question, mystery, problem, brain-teaser or Brit brain-twister: The cracker contained a whistle, paper hat, and the inevitable riddle.
RIGOUR|7|n. 1 Usually, rigours. severity, harshness, hardship, inhospitableness, bleakness, inclemency or inclementness, bitterness, cold: I am not sure that my grandmother can endure the rigours of another Scottish winter. 2 strictness, rigidity, precision, preciseness, punctilio, literalness, exactness, meticulousness, stringency, inflexibility, rigorism, harshness, severity, hardship, asperity, austerity, sternness: If you work with radioactive materials, safety regulations must be observed with rigour. The rigour of monastic life has toughened him over the years.
RIPOFF|6|n. 1 stealing, purloining, robbing, pilfering, taking, filching, pilferage, theft, robbery, larceny; shoplifting, Colloq pinching, Brit nicking, Slang lifting, swiping, US boosting: The rip-off of books from the library is a disgrace. 2 swindle, confidence trick, swindling, cheating, cheat, fraud, deception, defrauding, defalcation; embezzlement, Colloq con (job or trick): A husband-and-wife team are being sought for executing a rip-off of thousands from the Outland Bank using a forged letter of credit. 3 overcharging, exploitation, Colloq highway or chiefly Brit daylight robbery: It's a rip-off to charge two pounds for something that costs only three pence to make.
RIPPLE|4|n. 1 wavelet, wave, ruffle, ruffling, cat's-paw, purl, purling, undulation, US riffle, riffling: There wasn't even the slightest breath of air to cause a ripple on the mirror-like surface of the lake. 2 (slight) disturbance, upset, perturbation, agitation, flurry, flutter, suggestion, hint, soupúon: The divorce occasioned only a ripple of dissent in the royal family. --v. 3 ruffle, purl, undulate, wave; splash, wash, US riffle: I sat musing, watching the water ripple over the stones in the brook.
RITUAL|6|adj. 1 ceremonial, ceremonious, sacramental: The celebrants undergo ritual washing before preparing the sacrifice. 2 procedural, formal, conventional, customary, habitual, routine, prescribed, usual, automatic, perfunctory: Each time they meet, Harold and Bill have to go through a ritual handshaking routine - a hangover from their school-days, I think. --n. 3 formality, routine, custom, practice, convention, protocol: If everyone goes through this tea-drinking ritual twice a day, how do you get any work done? 4 See rite, above.
ROBBER|4|n. thief, pickpocket, shoplifter, burglar, bandit, housebreaker, sneak-thief, cat burglar, safe-breaker, highwayman, gentleman of the road, brigand, pirate, freebooter, buccaneer, privateer, corsair, Colloq mugger, hold-up man, Slang cracksman, rip-off artist, safe-cracker, safe-blower, Chiefly US stick-up man, US second-story or second-storey man: The police were making every effort to catch the robbers.
ROBUST|8|adj. 1 healthy, fit, sound, hale (and hearty), sturdy, hardy, hearty, strong, stout, tough, able-bodied, strapping, brawny, sinewy, rugged, muscular, powerful, well-knit, athletic, staunch, vigorous; in fine or good fettle, Colloq husky: Kelly was such a robust chap one might have thought he'd live forever. 2 pungent, strong, flavourful, sapid, rich, full-bodied, nutty, fruity: He gave me a glass of an excellent robust tawny port.
ROCKET|4|v. zoom, take off, sky-rocket, shoot up, climb, rise rapidly, soar, spiral upwards, Colloq go through the roof: The day controls were lifted, prices rocketed, almost doubling overnight.
ROLLER|4|n. 1 drum, cylinder, barrel, calender; tube; windlass; rolling-pin; mangle, wringer: Make certain that the roller is clean. 2 billow, wave, comber, breaker, swell: After the storm, the heavy rollers continued to pound the sea wall.
ROOTED|5|adj. firm, established, set, fixed, fast, settled, deep-rooted, deep-seated, entrenched, ingrained or engrained, (firmly) embedded or imbedded, implanted, instilled; chronic, inbred, inherent, intrinsic, essential, fundamental, basic, radical: Have you any rooted objections to the principle of living with someone of the opposite sex without being married?
ROTATE|6|v. 1 turn, revolve, go round, spin, gyrate, pirouette, whirl, twirl, wheel, pivot, reel: As the gear rotates, its teeth mesh with those of the other gear, causing it to turn in the opposite direction. 2 change, exchange, alternate, interchange, switch, trade places; take turns, Colloq swap or swop: Rotate the positions of the tyres for more even wear. We rotate the chores in our family.
ROTTEN|4|adj. 1 rotted, decayed, decomposed, decomposing, putrid, putrescent, putrescing, mouldy, mouldering, spoilt or spoiled, mildewed, rancid, fetid or foetid, stale, rank, foul, feculent, tainted, contaminated, festered, festering, corrupt, bad, off, turned, overripe, soured, sour: One rotten apple in the barrel can spoil the rest. The stench of rotten meat filled the room. 2 rotted, rusted, corroded, deteriorating, disintegrating, crumbling, crumbly, falling to pieces, friable: He stepped on a spot where the wood was rotten and his foot went right through the stair. 3 immoral, corrupt, dishonest, deceitful, venal, shameless, degenerate, villainous, iniquitous, evil, wicked, vile, debased, base, perverted, depraved, unscrupulous, unprincipled, amoral, warped, Slang bent: These drug dealers are rotten at the core. 4 heinous, evil, vile, base, miserable, despicable, wretched, awful, terrible, horrible, horrific, nasty, contemptible, filthy, mean, low, Colloq lousy, stinking, low-down, dirty-rotten: Pairing me off with Vera at the dance was a rotten trick. 5 ill, unwell, sick, nauseated, awful; hung-over, Colloq lousy, ropy or ropey, rough: I feel really rotten - maybe it was those mushrooms I ate last night.
ROTUND|7|adj. 1 round(ed), circular, orbicular, globular, spherical: His rotund, cherubic little face simply invited a pinch of the cheek. 2 full, full-toned, deep, resonant, reverberant, reverberating, sonorous, rich, round, mellow; pear-shaped: They thrilled to hear the rotund notes issuing from Caruso's lips as he sang 'Vesti la Giubba'. 3 chubby, podgy or chiefly US pudgy, (pleasingly) plump, portly, tubby, heavy, fleshy, corpulent, stout, fat, obese, overweight, Colloq roly-poly: Jack's rotund figure was easily recognizable waddling up the street.
RUFFLE|4|n. 1 trimming, flounce, frill, ruff, peplum, flare, smocking, ruche, ruching, gather, gathering: Doesn't that ruffle at the back of the skirt make it look a bit old-fashioned? 2 ripple, wavelet, disturbance, flurry, bustle, stir, perturbation, wrinkle: The news of the divorce caused a slight ruffle at court. --v. 3 agitate, disconcert, confuse, discompose, discomfit, upset, disturb, stir up, perturb, unsettle, disorient, unnerve, fluster, affect, bother, intimidate, unstring, put out, vex, trouble, worry, Colloq rattle, throw, shake up, Chiefly US and Canadian discombobulate, voodoo, hex, psych out, Slang chiefly US and Canadian get (someone) all shook up, spook: She was ruffled by questions concerning her relationship with the deceased. 4 disarrange, dishevel, disorder, rumple, mix up, tousle, tangle, disorder, Colloq mess or muss (up): His unpleasant attitude ruffled quite a few feathers in the department.
RUGGED|5|adj. 1 rough, uneven, broken, stony, rocky, irregular, bumpy, pitted, jagged, ragged: The horses picked their way slowly across the rugged terrain. 2 tough, rough, severe, hard, harsh, difficult, arduous, Spartan, rigorous, onerous, stern, demanding, burdensome: It is amazing how that small band of pioneers withstood the rugged life in the untamed West. 3 hardy, durable, strong, sturdy, hale, robust, tough, vigorous, hard, rough-and-ready, stalwart; independent, individualistic, self-reliant, self-confident, self-sufficient, bold: WANTED: Five rugged pioneering types to join an expedition to the source of the Amazon river. 4 rude, uncouth, uncultured, uncivilized, unrefined, unpolished, crude, ungraceful, churlish: I admit that Charlie's manners are a bit rugged, but he's one of the best men we have.
RUMOUR|8|n. 1 rumour, news, gossip, hearsay, information, scoop, tidings, chat, chit-chat, tittle-tattle, on dit; grapevine, jungle telegraph, Colloq low-down, info, US and Canadian poop, Slang chiefly US nautical scuttlebutt: The rumour is that they are moving from Reading to Exeter. Rumour has it that you are not going with them. --v. 2 bruit about, noise abroad, circulate, pass around, intimate, breathe, suggest, whisper, leak, reveal, make known, put about, say, report, tell: It has been rumoured that she is going to have his baby.
RUMPLE|10|v. Sometimes, rumple up. wrinkle, crumple, crush, crease, fold, crinkle, dishevel, ruffle, tousle, scrunch (up), pucker, muss (up), mess (up): When she stood up, the back of her dress was all rumpled.
RUMPUS|10|n. commotion, disturbance, fuss, confusion, uproar, tumult, to-do, ado, mayhem, bedlam, brouhaha, stir, pother, affray, fracas, row, mél÷e or melee, rough-house, brawl: You have no idea what a rumpus he created just because my dog went in his garden.
RUNNER|4|n. 1 sprinter, racer, jogger, hurdler, miler: Gordon is one of our best runners and ought to make the Olympic team. 2 messenger, courier, errand-boy, errand-girl, messenger-boy, messenger-girl, page, dispatch-bearer or despatch-bearer, dispatch-rider or despatch-rider, Colloq US gofer: The runner said that the package fell off his motor cycle and he lost it. 3 sucker, tendril, creeper, shoot, branch, stem: Tie these runners to the frame in order to train the vine. 4 blade: The runners on your skates need sharpening.
RUSTIC|8|adj. 1 See rural, 1, above. 2 peasant, plain, simple, uncomplicated, unsophisticated, naìve, ingenuous, guileless, artless, unrefined, unpolished, countrified, uncultivated, uncultured, boorish, crude, rough, unmannerly, hill-billy, backwoods, awkward, ungainly, cloddish, plodding, oafish, gawky, lumpen, loutish: Who could dream that such a rustic homebody would some day be famous for the most fashionable literary salon in London? --n. 3 peasant, bumpkin, boor, yokel, hill-billy, countryman, countrywoman, country boy or girl, oaf, country cousin, Colloq clodhopper, Derogatory and offensive bog-trotter, US and Canadian hayseed, hick: In those days, few rustics ever even visited a city.
RUSTLE|6|v. 1 whisper, swish, sibilate, susurrate: Outside my window, the leaves rustled in the evening breeze. --n. 2 whisper, whispering, rustling, swish, swishing, sibilation, sibilance, susurration, susurrus: I heard the faint rustle of satin and knew she was listening at the door.
SACRED|9|adj. 1 consecrated, dedicated, hallowed, holy, blessed, blest, sanctified, revered, divine, awe-inspiring, venerable, venerated, sainted, heaven-sent: This is a most sacred Islamic site. 2 inviolable, inviolate, untouchable, protected, sacrosanct: They held nothing sacred as they ransacked the temple. 3 religious, spiritual, ceremonial, church(ly), ecclesiastical, priestly, hieratic, ritual, solemn, sacramental, liturgical: He continued to carry out his sacred duties despite the war.
SADDEN|4|v. depress, deject, sorrow, dishearten, distress, dispirit, discourage, grieve, aggrieve: It saddens me to think of all the starving people.
SAFETY|12|n. safeness, protection, aegis, cover, shelter, security, refuge; sanctuary, safe keeping: There's safety in numbers, so the more the merrier. We retreated to the safety of the castle dungeon.
SAILOR|6|n. seaman, seafarer, seafaring man or woman, seagoing man or woman, mariner, (old) salt, sea dog, bluejacket, shellback, yachtsman, yachtswoman, boatman, boatwoman, deck-hand, captain, skipper, Literary Jack Tar, Colloq tar, Naval US swab, swabbie, gob: When she said she had married a sailor I didn't know she meant that he had a 100-foot yacht.
SALARY|9|n. income, pay, earnings, compensation, remuneration, emolument; wage(s): I can't afford a new car on my present salary.
SALUTE|6|v. 1 greet, hail, address, accost: The moment I stepped in at the door I was saluted with the peremptory question, 'Where have you been?' 2 pay respects or homage or tribute to, honour, recognize, acknowledge: Wherever she went she was saluted as a heroine. --n. 3 greeting, address, salutation: He returned my salute with a nod.
SANITY|9|n. saneness, reason, mental health or soundness, normality, rationality, reason, reasonableness, stability, balance: Have you any reason for suspecting her sanity?
SATIRE|6|n. 1 ridicule, irony, sarcasm, mockery, spoofing, exaggeration, caricature: Often, the best way to comment on a distasteful political situation is through satire. 2 burlesque, lampoon, parody, travesty, pasquinade, spoof, cartoon, caricature, Colloq take-off, Chiefly Brit send-up: For several years he wrote mainly satires of life among the wealthy.
SAVAGE|10|adj. 1 wild, untamed, undomesticated, feral, unbroken: These savage beasts had never seen a man before. 2 vicious, ferocious, fierce, beastly, bestial, brutish, bloodthirsty, brutal, cruel, ruthless, pitiless, merciless, harsh, bloody, unmerciful, fell, barbarous, barbaric, murderous, demonic, demoniac, sadistic: The boy was subjected to a savage attack by the defendant's dog. The king's guards were selected for their savage nature. 3 wild, uncivilized, uncultivated, primitive, inhuman, bestial, barbaric, barbarous, untamed, rude: The savage behaviour of some New Guinea tribes included cannibalism. --n. 4 wild man or woman, brute, barbarian; Caliban: When the explorers landed on the island, they were welcomed by the savages who lived there.
SAVING|6|adj. 1 redeeming, redemptory or redemptive or redemptional, compensating, compensatory, qualifying, extenuating, extenuatory: His one saving grace is that he has a lot of money. 2 parsimonious, economical, thrifty, provident, frugal, sparing, prudent: It was only because of Alison's saving nature that we had enough to live on during the strike. --n. 3 economizing, economization, economy, thrift, providence, frugality, prudence, scrimping, scraping, sparingness: It was only by her saving that we survived. 4 savings. resources, reserve, cache, hoard, nest egg: Our savings are to pay for your education, not for having a good time.
SAVOUR|9|n. 1 taste, flavour, zest, tang, smack, piquancy: These poached peaches have a savour of brandy about them. 2 hint, suggestion, odour, scent, fragrance, smell, perfume, redolence, bouquet, breath, trace, quality, soupúon, dash: He preferred talking about the savour rather than the odour of sanctity, for alliteration's sake. --v. 3 taste, sample, perceive, detect, sense, discern, mark, descry, observe, notice, note, identify; enjoy, luxuriate in, relish, indulge in, bask in, appreciate, revel in, delight in, value, cherish, Colloq lick or smack one's lips or chops over: One could savour a trace of honey in the wine. For a week we savoured the delights of the Costa Brava.
SCANTY|7|adj. 1 scant, sparse, scarce, little, meagre, minimal; barely adequate or sufficient, limited, restricted, Colloq measly: The news from the front was scanty. We received only scanty support from the Arts Council. 2 skimpy, short, small, sparse, minimal, meagre, in short supply, Colloq chiefly Brit thin on the ground: Investor interest in the new share offering seemed to be scanty.
SCARCE|6|adj. scanty, scant, insufficient, inadequate, deficient, wanting, lacking, rare, unusual, at a premium, in short supply, meagre, few and far between, seldom met with, hard to come by, Chiefly Brit thin on the ground: Good editors are very scarce.
SCARED|5|adj. frightened, alarmed, afraid, appalled, shocked, terrified, horrified, startled: Don't be scared, I won't hurt you.
SCENIC|6|adj. picturesque, panoramic, pretty, beautiful, grand, awesome, awe-inspiring, impressive, striking, spectacular, breathtaking: The train passes through some incredibly scenic routes in Switzerland.
SCHEME|5|n. 1 plan, plot, design, programme, system, course (of action), schema, outline, exposition, projection, draft, method, technique, approach, game plan, scenario: In my scheme, compensation would be dependent on productivity, merit, and length of service. 2 pattern, arrangement, layout, design, diagram, blueprint, chart, map, drawing, schematic, disposition, order, organization, schema: This alternative scheme shows the executive offices on the second floor. 3 plot, plan, ploy, manoeuvre, strategy, stratagem, tactic, machination, subterfuge, trick, device, dodge, wile, ruse, intrigue, Colloq racket, game, move: Ashton's scheme was to lure the security guards into the outer room, then lock them in. --v. 4 plan, plot, devise, contrive, intrigue, organize, formulate, hatch, conspire, machinate, manoeuvre, connive, concoct, Colloq cook up: Clifton had been scheming to get his revenge on them ever since the Manchester episode.
SCHISM|5|n. split, rift, break, breach, division, rupture, separation, disunion: The schism was caused by a group of left-wing idealists.
SCHOOL|1|n. 1 (educational) institution, kindergarten, nursery school, primary or grammar or secondary or high school, institute, college, university, seminary; Alma Mater; boarding-school, day-school; public school, private school, Brit State school; lyc÷e; Lyceum, Brit first or middle school, US junior high school: His mother was very upset when he hinted that he might quit school. 2 set, coterie, circle, clique, group, denomination, faction, sect, followers, devotees, adherents, votaries, disciples; style, kind, form, manner, fashion: Burne-Jones belonged to the Pre-Raphaelite School of painters. 3 philosophy, principles, creed, set of beliefs, way of life, persuasion, credo, dogma, teaching, view, opinion, faction, approach: Regarding the creation of the universe, do you support the big-bang school or the steady-state school? --v. 4 teach, educate, drill, inculcate, instil, indoctrinate, instruct, tutor, train, discipline, coach, prepare, prime, equip, ready; mould, shape, form; school in, imbue with, infuse with: Young ladies were schooled in all the social graces.
SCORCH|2|v. sear, blacken, burn, roast, singe, char: Though scorched in the fire, the papers were saved intact.
SCRAWL|7|n. 1 scribble, Colloq squiggle, US hen-scratch, chicken-scratch: I can't read that scrawl of his. --v. 2 scribble, scratch, doodle: How do pharmacists read the prescriptions that doctors scrawl?
SCREAM|6|v. 1 shriek, screech, squeal, yowl, wail, caterwaul, howl, cry: She screamed when I applied iodine to the cut. 2 laugh, roar, hoot, howl, guffaw: The women screamed hysterically as the male stripper got down to the bare essentials. --n. 3 shriek, screech, squeal, yowl, wail, caterwaul, howl, cry: When she saw what had happened, she let out a blood-curdling scream. 4 Colloq card, panic, riot, thigh-slapper: Phyllis is such a scream when she talks about the silly things that happen to her.
SCREEN|2|n. 1 partition, (room) divider, paravent, wall: In their one-room flat a bookcase serves as a screen to separate the living area from the sleeping area. 2 shelter, protection, shield, cover: A row of poplars acts as a screen against the wind. 3 curtain, blind, shroud, cloak, cover; concealment, camouflage: The gauze fabric was too transparent to act as a screen. 4 sieve, mesh, strainer, filter, colander, riddle: The sand has to be shovelled through a screen to get rid of the stones. 5 motion pictures, movies, silver screen; television, small screen, home screen, Colloq box, telly, US boob tube: She is a star of both the big and small screens. --v. 6 partition (off), separate, divide, wall off: Why not use a beaded curtain to screen the kitchen area from the dining-room? 7 shelter, protect, shield, cover, guard, conceal, camouflage, mask, veil, hide: A decorative pierced wall screens the ladies of the harem from the prying eyes of visitors. 8 sift, separate (out), sort (out), filter, select, cull, process, interview, evaluate, grade, gauge, qualify, examine, scan, Chiefly Brit vet: The agency screens all candidates before sending them to see a client.
SCRIBE|6|n. 1 copyist, copier, transcriber, Archaic scrivener; amanuensis, clerk, secretary: Before the invention of movable type printing, copies of books and documents were prepared by scribes. 2 writer, author, penman, scrivener, wordsmith, scribbler, hack, penny-a-liner; dramatist, dramaturge, playwright, poet, novelist, essayist, columnist, technical writer; journalist, gentleman or lady of the press, newspaperman, newspaperwoman, reporter, rewrite man or woman or person, editor, reviewer, commentator, newswriter, sob sister, agony aunt or uncle, Miss Lonelyhearts, gossip columnist, member of the fourth estate, Brit paragraphist, leader-writer, US Grub Streeter, Colloq Brit journo: In a general way, he refers to all writers as 'scribes', but particularly those he considers a bit old-fashioned. --v. 3 inscribe, incise, etch, engrave, mark, scratch, score, grave, scrimshaw, carve, chase or enchase: The shotgun was scribed with the most beautiful designs, some inlaid in gold.
SCRIPT|6|n. 1 handwriting, hand, (cursive) writing, penmanship; calligraphy: These love-letters are written in an unusually beautiful script. 2 manuscript, scenario, book, play, screenplay, teleplay, libretto, continuity: Stick to the script - I don't want you ad libbing! --v. 3 write, pen, prepare, create: The new series was scripted by the same writer who wrote 'Out in the Outback'. 4 plan, organize, design, arrange, lay out, order, configure, pattern: The take-over of the company had not been scripted in their business forecasts.
SCURRY|5|v. dash, scramble, scamper, scoot, dart, fly, race, sprint, scuttle, hurry, hasten, speed, hustle, rush, tear, zoom, zip, bolt, rip, scud: A rat scurried across the floor. We went scurrying round the shops on Christmas Eve.
SCURVY|10|adj. low, miserable, contemptible, vile, base, despicable, rotten, sorry, bad, ignoble, dishonourable, mean, worthless, shabby: Robbing poor old ladies is a pretty scurvy activity.
SEASON|6|n. 1 time, period, occasion, opportunity: This is the season when the birds migrate north. Is the silly season upon us again so soon? 2 in season. ripe, ready, edible, seasoned, seasonable, available: Fresh strawberries will be in season soon. --v. 3 spice, salt, flavour, pep up, enliven: One of the great things about chicken is that you can season it in many different ways. 4 ripen, mature, age, condition, mellow: The wood should be well seasoned before being made into furniture.
SECEDE|9|v. withdraw or resign or retire (from), abandon, forsake, apostasize, break with or away (from), drop or pull out (of), turn one's back to or on, quit, separate from, leave, wash one's hands of, have nothing further to do with: The City of New York occasionally threatens to secede from the United States.
SECOND|9|adj. 1 subsequent, following, next: He let the first target go by and aimed for the second one. 2 subordinate, next: If the colonel isn't here, who is the second officer? 3 alternative, second-best: She refuses to settle for second choice. 4 alternate, other: The laundry is picked up and delivered every second Tuesday. His second language is Italian. 5 other, later, younger, newer, more recent: After his first wife died, he took her nurse as his second wife. 6 another, duplicate: The boy is a second Einstein. --n. 7 defective or imperfect or damaged or faulty or deficient or flawed or impaired or marred or blemished or bruised or inferior merchandise: The prices of these shirts have been reduced because they are seconds. 8 subordinate, assistant, number two, lieutenant, aide-de-camp, man Friday, girl Friday, right hand; understudy, stand-in, substitute, surrogate, double, alternate, backer, supporter; Colloq US gal Friday: Not being ambitious, Helen would prefer to be a second to the person who runs the business. --v. 9 support, back, aid, help, assist, approve (of), advance, promote, subscribe to, espouse, sponsor, patronize, favour, encourage, go along with: Madam Chairwoman, I would like to second this proposal. 10 transfer, move, assign, shift, relocate: After the Falklands War, he was seconded to fleet headquarters for a year. --adv. 11 secondly, in the second place, secondarily, (number) two, b or B: I want to go: first, because it'll be interesting, and second, because Jake'll be there.
SECRET|8|adj. 1 concealed, hidden, private, covert, shrouded, clandestine; confidential, covert, quiet, under cover, secretive, unpublishable, unpublished, Colloq hush-hush: There is a secret passageway leading from the cave to the cove. Keep secret what I shall tell you. She revealed to me her most secret desires. 2 cryptic, private, arcane, mysterious, incomprehensible, esoteric, recondite, abstruse; cryptographic, encrypted, encoded: We used to communicate by secret code. Did you receive my secret message? --n. 3 private or confidential matter or affair, mystery: If I tell you my secret will you tell me yours? 4 in secret. privately, confidentially, secretly, on the q.t. or Q.T.; surreptitiously, under cover, by stealth, stealthily, furtively, quietly, on the sly, clandestinely: The office manager told me in secret that John was going to resign. They see one another in secret.
SECURE|8|adj. 1 safe, shielded, sheltered, protected, immune, unthreatened, unexposed, unimperilled, snug, cosy: Fiona feels quite secure in her new house. Considering the success of the company, Bill's job looks secure. 2 firm, steady, stable, fixed, fast, moored, anchored, immovable, closed, shut, fastened, locked (up), tight, sound, solid, sturdy, strong: That button on your jacket doesn't look very secure. Make sure that the house is secure before you go to sleep. 3 reliable, safe, good, profitable, healthy, solid: Telephone shares looked like a secure investment at the time. 4 sure, certain, assured, ensured, definite, inevitable, assumed, evident, obvious, unquestionable, established, probable, easy: With only two minutes left to play, victory seemed secure for Rangers. --v. 5 obtain, get (hold of), come by, acquire, procure, win; gain, get or take possession of, arrogate: Tim has secured a responsible position at the bank. She always manages to secure the sympathy of older men. 6 guarantee, underwrite, hypothecate, collateralize: We used our house to secure the loan. 7 protect, shelter, shield, defend, guard, safeguard, preserve: It seems impossible to secure young children from bullying at school. 8 fasten, make fast, fix, affix, attach, anchor: Secure the cases to the roof-rack with strong rope.
SEDATE|7|adj. 1 composed, serene, peaceful, calm, tranquil, cool, collected, even-tempered, detached, imperturbable, unruffled, undisturbed, unperturbed, controlled, placid, grave, serious, sober, solemn, Colloq unflappable: Despite all the turmoil round her, Sarah remained quite sedate. 2 dignified, decorous, refined, formal, stiff, staid, proper, strait-laced, prudish, fussy, prim, conventional, old-fashioned: Donald prefers a sedate waltz to boogying and jiving.
SEDUCE|9|v. 1 lure, entice, attract, allure, tempt, mislead, beguile, deceive, decoy, draw on, charm, captivate, vamp, entrap, ensnare, trap, Colloq sweet-talk: He was seduced into giving her his life's savings. 2 dishonour, ruin, corrupt, lead astray, defile, debauch, deflower, violate, ravish: How many girls have been seduced in the name of undying love?
SEEING|1|conjunction. in view of (the fact that), whereas, in (the) light of, inasmuch as, since, considering: Seeing that you are here, you might as well tell her yourself.
SEEMLY|9|adj. 1 proper, fitting, appropriate, becoming, suited, suitable, fit, befitting, apt, comme il faut, right, apropos, apposite, characteristic, meet, reasonable, sensible: You can count on Felix to do the seemly thing in such cases. 2 decent, decorous, proper, dignified, genteel, gentlemanly, ladylike, diplomatic, discreet, prudent, politic: She behaved in a seemly manner, in keeping with what was expected of a princess.
SEESAW|7|n. 1 teeter: The children were playing on the see-saw. --v. 2 teeter, totter, waver, vary, vacillate, oscillate, alternate, fluctuate, swing, switch: He couldn't make up his mind and kept see-sawing between staying and going.
SEETHE|2|v. 1 boil, stew, simmer, foam: In the kitchen, a large pot of stew seethed on the stove. 2 stew, simmer, foam (at the mouth), fume, smoulder, burn, rage, rant, rave, become livid or feverish, be in ferment, be furious or incensed, Colloq blow one's stack or top, carry on, take on, get hot under the collar, get red in the face, get all steamed up: The ball sailed through Mr Griffiths' new greenhouse and he came out seething with rage.
SELDOM|9|adv. rarely, infrequently, not often, hardly ever, very occasionally: Since they moved away, we seldom see the Pattersons.
SELECT|8|v. 1 choose, pick, show (a) preference for, prefer, opt for, single out, hand-pick, distinguish: Select any two books from this pile. Anne was delighted to be selected from hundreds of candidates. --adj. 2 selected, chosen, hand-picked, choice, special, preferred, preferable, favoured, favourite, exceptional, excellent, first-rate, first-class, superior, supreme, prime, better, best, finest, tiptop: We have set aside some of our select jewels for you to consider, Your Ladyship. 3 limited, restricted, restrictive, exclusive, privileged, ÷lite, closed: He belongs to one of those select clubs that accept you only if your family can be traced back five hundred years.
SELLER|4|n. dealer, vendor, merchant, retailer, shopkeeper, salesperson, salesman, saleswoman, saleslady, sales agent, representative, traveller, travelling salesman, peddler, hawker, colporteur, sutler, chandler, Old-fashioned counter-jumper, Brit shop assistant, -monger (as in costermonger, ironmonger, fishmonger, etc.), US and Canadian sales-clerk, clerk, shop-girl, Colloq rep, US drummer: Time ran out on his job as a seller of water-clocks and hourglasses.
SENILE|6|adj. (of a woman) anile; senescent, decrepit, declining, failing, in one's dotage, doting, doddering, in one's second childhood, dotty, simple, feeble-minded; forgetful, Colloq past it: He's senile and needs constant care.
SENIOR|6|adj. elder, older, Brit (postpositive) major; (higher-) ranking, superior, chief: The senior members of the club are impossibly stuffy. You must not address your senior officer in such a manner.
SEQUEL|4|n. follow-up, upshot, issue, result, consequence, development, supplement: The ruling went against him, but there was a curious sequel when he was suddenly offered an out-of-court settlement. They are showing the film Jean de Florette , together with its sequel Manon des Sources .
SERENE|6|adj. 1 peaceful, tranquil, calm, pacific, peaceable, restful, halcyon, idyllic, bucolic, pastoral, undisturbed, unruffled, imperturbable, unperturbed, untroubled, quiet, still: With the turmoil of the love affair behind her, Sharon looked ahead to a more serene life. 2 calm, cool, collected, placid, composed, self-possessed, poised, unexcitable, even-tempered, temperate, nonchalant, easygoing, cool-headed, easy, Colloq unflappable: Beneath William's serene exterior lay a seething, churning miasma of violent lust.
SERMON|8|n. 1 lecture, lesson, preaching, reprimand, reproach, reproof, remonstration, remonstrance, scolding, harangue, Colloq talking-to, dressing-down: Mother gave me a long sermon last night about getting home late. 2 homily, address, exhortation, lesson, lecture, speech, talk, discourse: We thought that Father Keiller's sermon on vanity was especially appropriate.
SETTLE|4|v. 1 arrange, order, dispose, organize, straighten out, put in or into order, compose, sort out, classify, coordinate, resolve, set to rights, reconcile: Ben settled his affairs before undergoing surgery. 2 Often, settle on or upon. fix (on), decide (on), establish, appoint, set, confirm, affirm, conclude, make sure or certain (of), determine, agree (upon or on), pick, choose, select: Have you been able to settle on a suitable time to visit Max and Maddy? 3 decide, reconcile, resolve, put an end to, conclude, clear up, patch up, adjust, negotiate, mediate: We have settled our differences. 4 Often, settle down. take up residence, go or come or move to, dwell, reside, make one's home, abide, remain, stay, live, set up home or house,put down roots, locate, inhabit, US set up housekeeping, locate: They have decided to settle in Australia after George retires. 5 Sometimes, settle down. light, alight, land, come down, put down, set down, (come to) rest or (roost), descend, perch: The butterfly settled on the tip of Alice's nose. 6 populate, people, colonize, pioneer: That part of the country wasn't settled till late in the 19th century. 7 Usually, settle down. calm down, subside, quiet down, be or become tranquil, Chiefly Brit quieten (down): The class settled down and we began the lesson. I must settle down and get back to work. 8 calm, quiet, soothe, tranquillize, relax, Chiefly Brit quieten: He drank some camomile tea to settle his nerves. 9 subside, sink, decline, fall: A great crack appeared in the wall when the house settled a bit. 10 Often, settle up. pay, square, dispose of, clear, balance, liquidate, discharge: If you settle the bill, we can leave. 11 Often, settle out. gravitate, sink, fall, precipitate (out): Stop shaking the container and let the sand settle to the bottom. 12 clarify, clear: After about an hour, the particles will start to settle.
SEVERE|9|adj. 1 strict, harsh, rigorous, austere, hard, stony, stony-hearted, hard-hearted, flinty, inexorable, iron-handed, oppressive, unbending, rigid, uncompromising, relentless, unyielding, obdurate, pitiless, punitive, merciless, unsympathetic, unfeeling, cruel, brutal, mean, savage, inhuman, beastly, ruthless, despotic, dictatorial, tyrannical, autocratic, demanding, exacting, painstaking, fastidious, exigent, taxing: Nicholas Nickleby was subjected to extremely severe treatment at Dotheboys Hall. Mr Bradshaw was a severe taskmaster. 2 stern, forbidding, dour, glowering, grave, grim, stiff, strait-laced, serious, unsmiling, sober, cold, frigid, aloof, austere: If he so much as dropped a spoon the master would give Nicholas a severe look. 3 dangerous, critical, dreadful, awful, life-threatening, acute, dire; mortal, fatal, terminal: She has had a severe attack of the flu. 4 stringent, punitive, harsh, punishing, burdensome, tough, onerous, grievous, painful, Draconian or Draconic: There are severe penalties for breaking the parking laws in this city. 5 harsh, bitter, cold, inclement, keen, violent, stormy, intense, turbulent, fierce, wicked: Granny couldn't live through another severe winter at Fort William. 6 stark, bare, plain, austere, Spartan, ascetic, primitive, simple, sparse, spare, monastic, modest, unadorned, unembellished, crude, undecorated, unembroidered: The severe d÷cor in the servants' quarters gave the appearance of a prison.
SEXUAL|13|adj. 1 sex, reproductive, genital, procreative or procreant, sex, progenitive, propagative: Their current project is an investigation of sexual behaviour in young adults. 2 sensual, sensuous, erotic, carnal, fleshly, voluptuous, libidinous, earthy, bodily, physical, lustful, animal, Colloq sexy: They have a deep sexual attraction to one another.
SHABBY|5|adj. 1 worn, dingy, faded, worn out, threadbare, tatty, tattered, frayed, raggedy, ragged, scruffy, dilapidated, ratty, dirty, bedraggled, mangy, run-down, seedy, (much) the worse for wear, Brit down at heel, US down at the heel(s), Colloq grubby, scrubby, gungy, tacky, US grungy: He was wearing a shabby suit and down-at-heel shoes. 2 poor, peremptory, unpleasant, nasty, disagreeable, mean, contemptuous, demeaning, grudging, ungenerous, impolite, rude, unfriendly, unhelpful, shoddy, ungentlemanly, unladylike, dishonourable, unworthy, scurvy, Colloq rotten: We were subjected to very shabby treatment at the office where we applied for work. 3 dilapidated, tumbledown, broken-down, shattered, battered, run-down, ramshackle, seedy, neglected, dirty, squalid, slum-like, slummy, Colloq beat-up, crummy: Sam lives in a shabby little house near the canal. 4 mean, stingy, ungenerous, niggardly, contemptible, low, lowly, base, mean-spirited, despicable, vile, uncouth, discreditable, inferior, disreputable, infamous, abominable, dishonourable, ignoble, atrocious, ignominious, odious, detestable, opprobrious: The shabby apology for their behaviour fell on deaf ears.
SHADOW|8|n. 1 darkness, gloom, dimness, dusk, obscurity: In the shadow I could make out the dim outline of a figure. 2 cover, screen, covering, shield, veil, curtain, protection, concealment: He stole past the sentry under the shadow of darkness. 3 hint, intimation, suggestion, suspicion, trace, vestige; remnant: I do not have the slightest shadow of doubt that she is telling the truth. Martin is merely a shadow of his former robust self. 4 cloud, blight, curse: A terrible shadow has fallen upon the family name. 5 See shade, 4, above. 6 companion, alter ego, comrade, Colloq sidekick, crony, chum, (bosom) pal, US (bosom) buddy: Boswell was Johnson's shadow for almost twenty years. --v. 7 follow, trail, track, dog, stalk, pursue, trace, Colloq tail, US and Canadian bird-dog: For a month detectives shadowed the suspect.
SHAGGY|5|adj. hairy, woolly, unkempt, unshorn, uncut, hirsute, dishevelled, matted, untidy: They had a large black dog with shaggy hair and a great bushy tail.
SHELVE|7|v. postpone, defer, put off or aside or on ice or on the shelf, pigeon-hole, lay aside, hold in abeyance, US table: We will have to shelve this matter until we have more information.
SHIELD|5|n. 1 protection, guard, safeguard, defence, screen, bulwark, shelter: Education is a poor shield against poverty. --v. 2 protect, guard, safeguard, keep, defend, screen, shelter: The mother bear will shield the cubs from harm or die in the attempt.
SHIFTY|10|adj. tricky, artful, shrewd, canny, cunning, foxy, wily, sharp, devious, slick, evasive, smooth, slippery, scheming, designing, conniving, calculating, underhand(ed), conspiratorial, treacherous, traitorous, deceitful, deceiving, duplicitous, two-faced, Janus-faced, dishonest, crooked, untrustworthy, Colloq bent: The shifty scoundrel gave me a bad cheque and did a moonlight flit.
SHIVER|7|v. 1 shake, quake, tremble, shudder, quiver: We sat in our wet clothes, shivering in the cold. The old shack shivered in the wind. 2 vibrate, luff, flap, flutter, chatter, rattle, shake, wallop: The sails shivered violently in the stiff breeze. --n. 3 shake, quake, tremble, shudder, quiver, thrill, frisson, trembling, tremor, flutter: She gave a little shiver and then snuggled into my arms. 4 the shivers. trembling, shivering, goose-pimples or goose bumps, Colloq the shakes, US the chills: He's had malaria and occasionally gets the shivers. Those horror films give me the shivers.
SHODDY|5|adj. shabby, tatty, inferior, poor, rubbishy, cheap, pinchbeck, meretricious, tawdry, gaudy, Brummagem, plastic, artificial, tinsel, tinselly, second-rate, trashy, junky, Colloq crappy, cheapjack, tacky, US chintzy: They can't get away for long with selling such shoddy merchandise.
SHOWER|7|n. 1 sprinkle, sprinkling, drizzle: Scattered showers are predicted for this afternoon. 2 deluge, torrent, flood, stream, barrage, overflow, abundance, profusion: Showers of confetti rained on the parade from the offices. --v. 3 sprinkle, rain, pour, spray, bombard, fall, descend, drop: Debris and ash from the volcano showered down on the village. 4 lavish, inundate, overwhelm, heap, load (down): On return from her triumphant tour, Sylvia was showered with gifts and praise.
SHREWD|8|adj. clever, smart, astute, cunning, canny, acute, sharp, keen-minded, keen, quick-witted, crafty, artful, manipulative, calculating, calculated, foxy, sly, wily, perceptive, percipient, perspicacious, discerning, wise, sage, sagacious, long-headed, intelligent, ingenious, Daedalian, inventive, resourceful: He is a shrewd politician, very good at knowing exactly what people want to hear him say.
SHRIEK|8|n. 1 scream, cry, screech, squeal, squawk, squall: The girls collapsed in shrieks of laughter. --v. 2 scream, cry, screech, squeal, squawk, squall: It is very boring to listen to one's neighbours shrieking at each other day and night.
SHRILL|2|adj. high-pitched, ear-splitting, piercing, ear-piercing, sharp, piping, screeching, screechy, penetrating: She let out a shrill cry when she saw what had happened.
SHRINK|8|v. 1 wither, shrivel (up), contract: My woollen pullover shrank because you washed it in hot water. 2 Often, shrink from. withdraw (from), draw back, recoil (from), back away (from), retreat (from), cower, cringe, flinch, shy away (from), wince, balk (at): Once committed to a responsibility, nothing could persuade Ella to shrink from it.
SHROUD|5|v. 1 screen, veil, mask, disguise, camouflage, cover, shield, blanket, shade, hide, conceal, protect, cloak, swathe, wrap, envelop: The tanks were shrouded from view in the forest. His activities are shrouded in mystery. --n. 2 winding-sheet, cerement, cerecloth, grave-clothes: They wrapped his body in a shroud and buried him in the churchyard. 3 veil, cover, shield, cloak, blanket, mask, mantle, pall, screen, covering, cloud: A shroud of secrecy descended over the Morocco affair.
SICKEN|4|v. 1 fall ill, take sick, contract, be stricken by, come down with or catch something or a bug, fail, weaken: After he seemed to be recovering so well, he suddenly sickened and died. 2 make ill or sick, afflict, affect, disgust, nauseate, turn one's stomach, upset, appal, shock, repel, revolt, repulse, offend, make one's gorge rise; put out: The scene in the abattoir sickened me.
SICKLY|7|adj. 1 See sick, 2, above. 2 ailing, feeble, delicate, wan, weak, pallid, pale, drawn, peaked, peaky, peakish: Jennie looks sickly and must build up her resistance. 3 mushy, mawkish, maudlin, cloying, insipid, weak, watery: The sickly sentimentality of the episode about the boy and his lost puppy was unbearable.
SIGNAL|7|n. 1 See sign, 1, above. 2 incitement, stimulus, spur, impetus, goad, prick: The waving of the flag will be the signal to advance. --adj. 3 remarkable, conspicuous, striking, extraordinary, unusual, unique, singular, special, noteworthy, notable, exceptional, significant, important, outstanding, momentous, consequential, weighty: The British forces won a signal victory at Khartoum that day. Winning the competition is a signal accomplishment. --v. 4 motion, indicate, gesture, gesticulate, communicate, announce, notify; whistle, wink, blink, nod, beckon, wave, sign: When your turn comes, a clerk will signal you to approach the counter. Peter raised his hand as a request to leave the room and the teacher signalled his assent.
SILENT|6|adj. 1 quiet, still, soundless, noiseless, tranquil, hushed, shushed, mute; calm, serene, placid, peaceful, pacific, unagitated, unruffled, untroubled, undisturbed, Literary stilly: After the children left the house fell silent. Not a mouse stirred in the silent city. 2 uncommunicative, mute, close-mouthed, taciturn, reticent, reserved, mum, tight-lipped, secretive: Millie told me a great deal about her children but was silent on the subject of her own activities. 3 unspeaking, unspoken, mute, unexpressed, tacit, understood, implicit, implied, unstated, unsaid: There is a silent agreement among the islanders not to reveal where the whisky is hidden. 4 inactive, non-participating, passive, quiescent, Brit sleeping: Although John runs the company, he has several silent partners. 5 unpronounced, unuttered, not sounded, Technical aphonic: The g in sign is silent, like the k in know and the l in could .
SILVER|9|n. 1 silverware, sterling, (silver) plate; cutlery, US flatware; hollowware: Guests are coming so I'll have to polish the silver. 2 white, greyish, whitish-grey, greyish-white, grey: When your hair has turned to silver, I will love you just the same. --adj. 3 silvery, shiny, shining, polished, burnished, lustrous, pearly, nacreous, bright, gleaming, Literary or heraldry argent; white: The moon's silver crescent hung low in the sky. Her hair is more silver than grey. 4 silvery, silver-toned, silver-tongued, sweet, pretty, euphonious, melodious, mellifluous, mellifluent, dulcet, musical: The silver tones of the muezzin echoed in the streets, calling the faithful to prayer.
SIMMER|4|v. 1 seethe, stew, cook, boil, bubble: A huge cauldron of soup simmered on the fire. 2 chafe, seethe, stew, steam, smoulder, fume, rage, burn, Colloq US do a slow burn: Father is still simmering because you scratched his car. 3 simmer down. calm or cool down, cool off, calm oneself, become quiet, control oneself, get control of or over oneself, Chiefly Brit quieten down, Slang cool it: Yesterday he was in a towering rage, but he has simmered down a bit today.
SIMPLE|10|adj. 1 uncomplicated, plain, uninvolved, unsophisticated, understandable, intelligible, (easily) understood, comprehensible, clear, lucid, straightforward, easy, elementary, basic: At the age of four, Jan was able to do simple mathematical calculations. 2 plain, unadorned, undecorated, unembellished, basic, fundamental, elementary, elemental, mere, unostentatious, unassuming, unpretentious, modest, classic, uncluttered, stark, clean, severe, austere, Spartan, homely; unvarnished, naked, honest: Thea was stunning in a simple black dress with a colourful scarf and gold jewellery. The simple truth is that he came home from work to find the house broken into and his wife gone. 3 sincere, frank, candid, open, unaffected, uncomplicated, unpretentious, straightforward, above-board, simple-hearted, uncontrived, direct, upright, square, forthright, four-square, righteous, honest, naìve, guileless, artless, undesigning, childlike, ingenuous, unsophisticated, innocent, green: The colonel was a simple man who was respected because he always said just what he meant. A simple heart may be its own best guide. 4 unsophisticated, naìve, slow, slow-witted, stupid, thick, thickheaded, simple-minded, feeble-minded, oafish, bovine, dense, obtuse, dull, dull-witted, witless, halfwitted, brainless, backward, imbecilic or chiefly Brit imbecile, cretinous, Colloq dumb, moronic: That chap Dawson is far too simple to understand what you are asking him. 5 lowly, humble, inferior, mean, base, subservient, common, subordinate: The lord of the manor regarded his tenants as simple folk, a breed apart from himself and his family.
SIMPLY|13|adv. 1 merely, barely, purely, only, solely, just, entirely, fully, totally, wholly, altogether, absolutely, really: Is it true that they met regularly simply to discuss politics? 2 totally, completely, altogether, entirely, just, plainly, obviously, really, unreservedly, unqualifiedly: If you believe that, you're simply too stupid for words! 3 naìvely, artlessly, guilelessly, openly, innocently, ingenuously, unaffectedly, unpretentiously, plainly, naturally: He asked her very simply what she did as a 'working girl'. 4 plainly, modestly, starkly, severely, sparely, sparsely, austerely, ascetically: His home is simply furnished, without paintings or any other decoration. 5 distinctly, unambiguously, plainly, obviously, unmistakably or unmistakeably: The instructions must be written simply so that they are understandable to anyone.
SINEWY|12|adj. strong, powerful, muscular, mighty, stout, wiry, robust, tough; strapping, brawny, burly: She looked so tiny and fragile cradled in his huge sinewy arms.
SINFUL|9|adj. corrupt, evil, wicked, bad, wrong, wrongful, iniquitous, vile, base, profane, immoral, profligate, depraved, criminal, sacrilegious, ungodly, unholy, demonic, irreligious, impious, irreverent: Anything that you like as much as you like chocolate must be sinful. They would never condone such sinful behaviour in our church.
SINGER|3|n. vocalist, soloist, songster, crooner, chanteuse, nightingale, minstrel, troubadour, balladeer, caroller, chorister, choirboy, choir girl, choir member, chorus-boy, chorus girl, chorus-member, Colloq songbird, canary, thrush: She used to be a professional singer.
SINGLE|3|adj. 1 unmarried, unwed, unattached, free; celibate: She remained single till she was twenty-two. 2 singular, individual, distinct, solitary; one, only, sole, lone, unique, isolated: There wasn't a single person there who could think for himself. A single shot rang out. 3 separate, distinct, individual, solitary: Every single hair is rooted in its follicle. --v. 4 single out. select, choose, pick, separate, take or put or set aside or apart, distinguish, cull, segregate, fix or fasten on: Why was she singled out for special treatment?
SINGLY|6|adv. one at a time, separately, individually, one by one, successively, one after the other, seriatim: Taken singly, the facts are not hard to assimilate.
SINNER|4|n. transgressor, wrongdoer, miscreant, offender, evil-doer, malefactor, reprobate, Biblical or archaic trespasser: Few people nowadays believe that sinners are punished in hell for all eternity.
SKINNY|11|adj. thin, underweight, gaunt, bony, scraggy, lank, lanky, gangly, gangling, raw-boned, meagre, spare, emaciated, half-starved, undernourished, spare, pinched, hollow-cheeked, wasted, shrunken: Two skinny children were clinging to their mother's skirts.
SLAVER|9|v. 1 drool, salivate, slobber, drivel, dribble, spit, Dialect slabber: The wolf opened its slavering jaws. --n. 2 drool, saliva, drivel, dribble, spit, spittle, Dialect slabber: The slaver formed on his lips as he raged on. 3 nonsense, drivel, rubbish, twaddle, piffle: The slaver spewed forth by the critics set her teeth on edge.
SLEAZY|18|adj. 1 unsubstantial or insubstantial, flimsy, slight, shabby, poor, gimcrack, jerry-built, tawdry, cheap, tatty, ramshackle, rickety, slipshod, Colloq US chintzy: Her garish dress was made from some sleazy synthetic material. 2 disreputable, low-class, low-grade, squalid, dirty, base, seedy, sordid, contemptible, trashy, run-down, mean, cheap, Colloq crummy, slummy, Slang crappy, cheesy: He was lying low in a sleazy hotel while the police searched for him.
SLEEPY|9|adj. 1 drowsy, somnolent, tired, nodding, dozy, lethargic, torpid, slumberous, sluggish, oscitant; weary, fatigued, exhausted, Colloq dead on one's feet, (knocked) out, beat, US and Canadian pooped: All that exercise has made me sleepy. 2 boring, inactive, dull, quiet, soporific, slow, sluggish: He grew up in a sleepy little village in the Outer Hebrides.
SLEUTH|4|n. detective, (private) detective, (private) investigator, US P.I., Colloq private eye, Sherlock, snoop, Brit tec or 'tec, US hawkshaw, Slang US dick, shamus, US and Canadian gumshoe: Dissatisfied with the progress of the police, we hired a private sleuth to investigate the theft.
SLIGHT|3|adj. 1 small, little, minor, negligible, unlikely, insignificant, inconsequential: There is always a slight chance that you might be wrong, you know. 2 trifling, tiny, slender, minute, infinitesimal; trace, perceptible: He didn't attach the slightest importance to the rumours that were going round. You'd best wash it again, as there is still a slight odour of garlic. 3 small, short, petite, thin, slim, slender, delicate, diminutive, tiny, miniature, bantam, wee, pocket, pocket-sized, US vest-pocket, Colloq pint-sized: Charlotte's slight build seems totally unaffected by the amount she eats. 4 insubstantial or unsubstantial, weak, feeble, delicate, dainty, frail, unstable, fragile, flimsy, lightly made or built, precarious, inadequate, rickety, insecure: This table is too slight to support the computer and the printer. His arguments were far too slight to carry conviction. --v. 5 disregard, ignore, disdain, scorn, snub, rebuff, cut, disrespect, cold-shoulder: He thought she had slighted him deliberately at the dance. 6 insult, offend, affront, mortify, diminish, minimize, depreciate, disparage: Siobhan felt slighted by Harry's inattention. --n. 7 insult, affront, slur, indignity, outrage, offence, disrespect: It is hard to understand why she tolerates his persistent slights. 8 inattention, neglect, disregard, indifference, snub, cold shoulder, coldness, ill-treatment: Perhaps she misinterprets his obsessive occupation in his work as a slight to her.
SLIVER|9|n. fragment, piece, shard, shred, splinter, slip, shaving, paring, flake, chip, bit, scrap, snippet, snip: Two weeks later, we were still finding tiny slivers of glass from the broken vase.
SLOGAN|7|n. war cry, battle-cry, rallying cry, catchword, watchword; motto: The magazine's slogan was 'If you love words, you'll love Word '.
SLOPPY|7|adj. 1 messy, dirty, slovenly, careless, slipshod, untidy, disordered, disorderly; draggle-tailed, bedraggled, dishevelled, unkempt, dowdy, frumpish, shabby, scruffy, Colloq US grungy: She is certainly a sloppy housekeeper. John's teacher complained about his sloppy work. 2 wet, slushy, watery, soggy, soppy, sopping, sodden, sloshy, muddy, rainy: The roads were sloppy after all the rain. You're lucky you don't have to go out in this sloppy weather. 3 sentimental, gushy, gushing, mawkish, maudlin, mushy, over-emotional, Colloq slushy, Brit wet, soppy: She starts to cry whenever she watches a sloppy film on TV.
SLOUCH|4|v. 1 droop, sag, stoop, loll, slump, hunch: Sit up straight and stop slouching. --n. 2 stoop, sag, droop, slump, hunch: He seems to have developed a slouch from the burden of his responsibilities. 3 Usually, no slouch. sloven, loafer, sluggard, laggard, loafer, idler, malingerer, lazybones: Nellie is certainly no slouch when it comes to exercising to keep fit.
SLUDGE|8|n. muck, mire, ooze, mud, slime, dregs, silt, residue, precipitate, Colloq goo: The mechanic said that there was a lot of sludge in the engine.
SMELLY|9|adj. malodorous, evil-smelling, foul-smelling, foul, mephitic, fetid, putrid, reeky, stinking, noisome, rank, offensive, miasmic or miasmatic or miasmatical or miasmal, odoriferous, rancid, high, gamy, Slang Brit whiffy: She hid the diamond in a washing basket full of smelly clothes.
SMOOTH|4|adj. 1 regular, even, flush, flat, level, plane, unruffled, unbroken, unwrinkled, undisturbed, tranquil, peaceful, calm, serene, glassy: A light breeze rose to ripple the smooth surface of Alan's martini. 2 slick, sleek, shiny, glossy, glassy, mirror-like, uniform, polished, burnished; silky, silken, velvety, satiny: Optical mirrors for telescopes must be as smooth as modern technology can made them. He ran his fingers over the smooth fabric. 3 unobstructed, easy, effortless, free, uncluttered, even, orderly, well-ordered, uneventful, flowing, fluent, unconstrained, uninterrupted: There were no obstacles in the way of a smooth return to normal operations. The road to ruin is short and smooth. 4 hairless, bald, bare, naked, clean-shaven, smooth-shaven, depilated, glabrous: His smooth pate shone in the moonlight. 5 soothing, mellow, pleasant, bland, mild, soft: That is a very smooth whisky indeed. 6 suave, slick, slippery, unctuous, silken, silky, glib, urbane, soign÷(e), agreeable, winning, plausible, facile, nonchalant, courtly, eloquent, honey-tongued, smooth-spoken, persuasive, oily, slimy, syrupy, Colloq chiefly Brit smarmy: With his quick understanding and smooth manner, Edward was a very successful salesman. 7 sweet, dulcet, pear-shaped, mellow, well-modulated, silver-tongued: The smooth tones of his serenade wafted through the evening air. 8 slick, scheming, conniving, crafty, shrewd, cunning, tricky, shifty, sly, foxy, Machiavellian, sophistic(al), plausible, credible, believable, Colloq cagey: Robinson came up with a very smooth plan to bilk wealthy widows out of their money. --v. 9 Often, smooth out or away. flatten, even, level, iron, press, mangle, calender: Please smooth the wrinkles out of this shirt so that I can wear it tonight. 10 prepare, lay, pave, ease, ready, clear, open, prime, lubricate, facilitate: What is your policy for smoothing the way for employees joining the firm? 11 sand, plane, polish, buff, burnish: The wood is smoothed to a glassy ...
SNAPPY|7|adj. 1 quick, sharp, brisk, smart, crisp, lively, rapid, speedy: If you want to come with us, you'd better make it snappy. 2 fashionable, chic, sharp, smart, stylish, dapper, modish, Colloq natty, Brit trendy: Your new friend is a very snappy dresser, isn't he?
SNATCH|4|v. 1 grab, grasp, seize, clasp, clutch, pluck, take (hold of), catch, lay hold of, wrest, latch on to, capture, snap up, win, get, lay or get one's hands on: The thief snatched her purse and ran away. One must snatch every available opportunity for happiness. 2 Chiefly US kidnap, abduct: They snatched the kid and are holding him for ransom. 3 save, rescue, deliver, remove: At the very last moment, we were snatched from the jaws of death. --n. 4 grab, clutch, grasp: He made a snatch for her necklace, but she managed to duck out of the way. 5 scrap, bit, fragment, snippet, segment, morsel, specimen, sample: We were able to hear only brief snatches of their conversation through the closed door.
SNEAKY|13|adj. underhand(ed), devious, furtive, sly, slippery, disingenuous, deceitful, dishonest, unscrupulous, shifty: He took a sneaky look at his friend's homework before starting his own.
SNEEZE|13|v. 1 sternutate: I was about to sneeze, so I grabbed a tissue. 2 sneeze at. See sneer, 2, above. --n. 3 sternutation; sneezing: The sneeze is an involuntary convulsive action.
SNIVEL|9|v. sniffle, snuffle, blubber, whimper, whine, mewl, pule; cry, Colloq Brit whinge: I'll buy some of your matches, little girl, but only if you stop snivelling.
SOCIAL|4|adj. 1 communal, community, common, collective, group, public, popular, societal: In many New England towns, the business of government is a social activity. Crime is a social, not an individual problem. 2 sexual, sexually transmitted, venereal: The clinic was established specifically to deal with social diseases. 3 See sociable, above.
SOFTEN|9|v. 1 Often, soften up. melt, affect, mollify, mellow, palliate, soothe, relax, appease: Nothing would soften the heart of that cruel tyrant. 2 mitigate, assuage, diminish, moderate, reduce, cushion, lessen, weaken, allay, ease, lighten, abate, temper, relieve: Can't you think of some way to soften the blow of such bad news? 3 muffle, deaden, damp, soft-pedal, lower, still, quiet, tone down, lessen, diminish, lighten, turn down, quell, Chiefly Brit quieten: Try to soften the high notes and bring up the bass. 4 give in, succumb, surrender, yield, agree, consent, concur, assent, give way, relax, ease (up), let up: The committee finally softened and allowed the park to be used for games.
SOLACE|8|n. 1 comfort, consolation, condolence, relief, balm, support, help, succour; reassurance, cheer: The children brought her solace in her bereavement. --v. 2 comfort, console, condole, support, help, succour, soothe, allay, alleviate, ameliorate, mitigate, assuage, relieve; cheer (up), reassure, hearten: There was little to solace James's misery.
SOLEMN|8|adj. 1 serious, sober, reserved, grave, earnest, sedate, staid, taciturn; morose, morbid, mirthless, unsmiling, gloomy, sombre, grim; glum, long-faced, saturnine: We observed a moment of solemn silence in memory of our fallen comrades. They knew from their father's solemn expression that something was wrong. 2 ceremonial, ritualistic, liturgical, religious, ecclesiastical, holy, divine, sacred, hallowed, sacramental, reverential, devotional: We attended a solemn service to celebrate the return of the hostages. 3 ceremonious, ritual, formal, dignified, stately, grand, august, imposing, impressive, awe-inspiring, awesome, important, momentous: The Trobriand islanders regarded the rights of passage as most solemn.
SOMBRE|10|adj. 1 gloomy, morose, lugubrious, funereal, morbid, louring or lowering, melancholy, sad, dismal, unhappy, cheerless, joyless, serious, sober, doleful, dolorous, mournful, depressed, depressing, grave, grim, grim-faced, grim-visaged, Literary melancholic, darksome: Despite his sombre appearance, Sid was one of the funniest men I've ever met. 2 dark, gloomy, foreboding, bleak, depressing, shadowy, murky, leaden, grey, black, dismal, dreary, overcast, dusky, dim, dingy, darkling, dull, subfusc or subfuscous: The sombre sky set the mood for the proceedings that were to follow. 3 staid, sedate, sober, solemn, dark, dull, subfusc: A young person like you ought to dress in less sombre colours.
SORDID|8|adj. 1 base, vile, corrupt, low, ignoble, debased, degraded, abased, mean, ignominious, dishonourable, despicable, disreputable, shabby, shameful, scurvy, rotten, execrable: He forced his family to do the most sordid things to raise money. 2 avaricious, greedy, grasping, mercenary, piggish, hoggish, selfish, rapacious, money-grubbing, stingy, parsimonious: His most sordid plan was to pretend he was collecting money for the handicapped. 3 dirty, foul, filthy, squalid, unclean, untidy, mean, slummy, seamy, seedy, wretched, unsanitary, insanitary, offensive, defiled, polluted, fetid, feculent, mucky, maggoty, putrid, fly-blown, slimy: The conditions of some of the homes the social workers visit are indescribably sordid. 4 wretched, miserable, poor, poverty-stricken, down-and-out, impoverished, ramshackle, hovel-like, tumbledown, dingy, seamy, seedy, slummy, deteriorated, sleazy, back-alley: When he first came to town, he lived in a sordid shack lent him by a farmer.
SORROW|7|n. 1 sadness, heartbreak, grief, unhappiness, dolour, misery, woe, anguish, distress, suffering, torment, agony, wretchedness, heartache, desolation, desolateness: How can one deal with the sorrow of the loss of a child? 2 affliction, trouble, trial, tribulation, misfortune, hardship, adversity, bad or hard luck, cares, pressure, strain, travail: It is unbelievable that anyone could survive a life filled with such sorrow. --v. 3 grieve, lament, mourn, regret, keen, bemoan, agonize, moan, bewail: She is sorrowing over the loss of her nephew.
SOURCE|8|n. 1 fountain-head, well-spring, origin, provenance, provenience, inception, start, outset, beginning, root(s), commencement, rise: We set out to find the source of the Blue Nile. The mineral bauxite is the source of aluminium. 2 originator, author, creator, begetter: Who is credited as the source of this quotation? 3 authority, documentation; informant, Colloq horse's mouth: To verify the information, go to the source.
SPARSE|8|adj. 1 thin (on the ground), few (and far between), meagre, scanty, (widely) dispersed or scattered, spread out, spotty, in short supply, scarce: Tourists are sparse in Scotland in January. Sparse blooms appeared on the rose-bushes this year. 2 little, limited, meagre, scant, sparing, inappreciable, not much, insignificant: Sparse use was made of the new tennis court because of the rain.
SPEECH|4|n. 1 speaking, talking, articulation, diction, language, expression, enunciation, elocution, speech pattern; communication: His speech is marred by a lisp. Martha studied speech at a well-known drama school. 2 oration, address, lecture, talk, discourse, disquisition, sermon, homily; tirade, harangue, philippic; (sales) pitch, line, song and dance; Colloq spiel, blast: Her speech left her audience awed with her knowledge of the subject. When the householder opens the door, you launch into your speech about the encyclopedia. 3 dialect, idiolect, jargon, parlance, idiom, faúon de parler, language, tongue, Colloq lingo: English speech varieties range from Scots to Cockney to Texan to Jamaican.
SPEEDY|10|adj. 1 quick, rapid, swift, brisk, expeditious, fast, immediate, prompt: What happened to the form of justice under which the accused were guaranteed a speedy trial? 2 hasty, precipitate, precipitous, hurried, summary: Some of the townspeople favoured the wrong kind of speedy justice - by lynching. 3 fleet, nimble, wing-footed, winged, fast, quick, rapid, swift: Carol is one of the speediest sprinters on our team.
SPHERE|11|n. 1 globe, orb, globule, spherule; drop, droplet, bubble: Flotation is provided by thousands of hollow plastic spheres. 2 society, class, level, caste, rank, domain, walk of life, station, stratum, position: They did not belong to the same social sphere. 3 area, field, province, subject, discipline, range, speciality or US specialty, forte, Colloq bailiwick, territory, department, thing, bag: Are Gregorian chants within Stanley's sphere of interest?
SPIRAL|8|n. 1 helix, coil, corkscrew, screw, scroll; whorl, volute, turn, curl: In earlier Greek motifs, the spiral is commoner than the rectangular fret. --adj. 2 helical, coiled, screw, corkscrew, cochlear or cochleate; scrolled, volute(d), whorled: A spiral staircase is attractive and space-saving, but hard to use.
SPIRIT|8|n. 1 anima, breath, life, vitality, vital spirit, pneuma, soul, consciousness, psyche, self, heart, essence: Though past eighty, Mr Wilkins has a great deal of spirit. Even though she is gone, Annabel's spirit is still with us. 2 character, temperament, temper, persona, disposition, mind, will, will-power, attitude, bent, inclination, energy, ardour, desire, impetus, drive, urge, eagerness, zest, zeal, zealousness, fire, passion(s), enthusiasm, motivation, mettle, resolution, resolve, intention, enterprise: We have always admired the spirit of the early pioneers. Bill has shown a lot of the right spirit. 3 zest, pungency, piquancy, warmth, fire, animation, life, liveliness, vivacity, vivaciousness, panache, ÷lan, dash, spice, Colloq sauce, pepper: He needs to put more spirit into his sales presentation. 4 See spectre, 1, above. 5 bravery, courage, grit, backbone, valour, pluck, daring, stout-heartedness, manfulness, manliness, gameness, resoluteness, will, will-power, Colloq vim, spunk, get-up-and-go, (right) stuff, guts, US sand: Johnston has the spirit to be a marine. 6 meaning, sense, tenor, signification, purport, intent, intention, purpose, aim, implication, message, essence, quintessence, core, heart, meat, pith, substance, marrow: The spirit of the agreement is different from the way the lawyers worded the contract. Is it in keeping with the spirit of the law? 7 attitude, principle, thought, idea, inspiration, notion, feeling, inclination, impulse: Christmas is associated with the spirit of giving. 8 Often, spirits. temper, mood, sentiments, feelings, cheer, humour, frame of mind; morale: I hope he took my criticism in good spirit. You seem to be in pretty good spirits today. My spirits are quite low. 9 spirits. a feelings, mood, temper, sentiments; morale, esprit de corps, team spirit: Spirits were high at the annual boat races. b alcohol, liquor, whisky, strong drink, Colloq booze, fire-water, Slang chiefly US and Canadian hooch or hootch: It is illegal to...
SPLASH|6|v. 1 spatter, bespatter, splatter, shower, spray, sprinkle, besprinkle, Brit splodge or US also splotch; mottle, spot: The painters splashed paint all over the floor. My freshly washed car was soon splashed with mud again. 2 blazon, spread, plaster: Was that your picture splashed across the front page of yesterday's paper? --n. 3 spatter, spray, splatter, sprinkle, spot, stain, smear, smudge, Brit splodge or US also splotch: There's a splash of tomato sauce on the tablecloth. 4 impression, show, uproar, ado, brouhaha, sensation, commotion, excitement, US foofaraw, Colloq to-do: After all the advance publicity, he was sure to make a big splash in the theatre.
SPLICE|10|v. 1 join, unite, marry, bind, conjoin; knit, entwine, intertwine, braid, plait, twist, interlace: After the two rope ends are spliced together, they should be seized with marline. --n. 2 joining, union, splicing, joint, connection or Brit connexion, tie, bond, binding, fastening, linking, linkage: A proper splice will probably be stronger than the single cable.
SPOKEN|12|adj. 1 oral, vocal, verbal, viva voce: My spoken commentary was recorded for later broadcast. He has an excellent command of spoken French. 2 spoken for. See speak, 13, above.
SPORTY|11|adj. informal, casual; stylish, chic, smart, trendy, fashionable, modish, å la mode, up to date, showy, rakish, Colloq swank(y), loud, Slang classy, swell, flashy, snazzy, sharp, US and Canadian spiffy: He came to dinner wearing sporty clothes. Yes, I suppose you might call Fred a sporty dresser.
SPOTTY|9|adj. 1 spotted, dotted, speckled, freckled, flecked, blotched, blotchy, stained, marked, pied, piebald, brindle(d), skewbald, mottled, motley, dapple(d), macular, foxed; soiled, dirty; Brit splodgy, splodged or US also splotchy, splotched: Pages of some old books are spotty with brown stains. 2 pimply, pimpled, blotched, blotchy, acned, pock-marked, pocky, bad, Scots plouky or plooky: Ian used to have a spotty complexion, but it's clear now. 3 patchy, irregular, uneven, erratic, sporadic, capricious, fitful: Radio reception in our area is spotty during electrical storms.
SPREAD|9|v. 1 Often, spread out. diffuse, distribute, disperse, disseminate, broadcast, sow, scatter, strew, shed, dispel, dissipate: Spread the mulch as evenly as possible to a depth of several inches. 2 Often, spread about or around. broadcast, publicize, make known, bruit about, air, televise, circulate, publish, distribute, disseminate, trumpet, announce, pronounce, promulgate, advertise, enounce, make public, tell the world, herald, repeat, recite: Start spreading the news: I'm leaving today. 3 Often, spread out. unfold, draw out, display, stretch out, open out, extend, lay out, fan out, unroll, unfurl: Please spread the cloth on the table. 4 Often, spread out. stretch (out), extend, protract, prolong, drag out, distribute, disperse: The bank said I could spread the payments over twenty years. 5 Often, spread out. stretch, extend, separate, put apart or out, part: He spread his arms and Lorna rushed into them. 6 grow, develop, increase, broaden, expand, extend, widen, enlarge, mushroom, proliferate, sprawl, branch out; metastasize: To meet the demand for the pies, bakeries began to spread throughout the country. The cancer, unchecked, was bound to spread. 7 smear, apply, smooth, put, rub, cover, layer, plaster, plate, coat, wash, glaze, paint, varnish, overlay, overspread; cloak, mantle, swaddle, wrap, blanket: I was careful to spread the paint evenly, avoiding streaks. When the cake has cooled, spread the chocolate icing over it. --n. 8 spreading, extension, extending, expansion, expanding, enlargement, enlarging, development, developing, increase, increasing, proliferation, proliferating, broadening, growth, widening, mushrooming, dispersion, dispersal, dispersing, dissemination, disseminating, distribution, distributing, dispensation, dispensing: The spread of the disease is uncontrolled. One of the functions of a university is to encourage the spread of knowledge. 9 extent, expanse, area, span, sweep, vastness, stretch, reach, breadth, depth, size, dimensions, compa...
SPRING|5|v. 1 leap, bound, jump, hop, vault, dart, fly, bounce: He sprang to his feet when she came into the room. When Tom came to the stream, he sprang over it. The leprechaun sprang out from behind a tree. 2 arise, appear, grow, come up, rise, come into being or existence, be born, emerge, sprout, shoot up, burst forth: Where the dragon's teeth were sown, an entire army sprang up. 3 Often, spring up or from. originate, begin, start, evolve; proceed from, stem from, descend from, derive from, come from, develop from: He learned how the practice of scratching the head in perplexity had sprung up. I wondered where the term horse latitudes sprang from. 4 start or begin or experience or cause to occur or appear or happen suddenly or unexpectedly, broach, pop, introduce or divulge or reveal or disclose suddenly or unexpectedly: The canoe sprang a leak and started to sink. He likes to spring trick questions at candidates in an interview. 5 spring for. pay for, treat (someone) to, assume the expense(s) of: If you go to a place I choose, I'll spring for dinner. --n. 6 leap, bound, jump, hop, vault, bounce, skip: In one spring the cat cleared the garden wall and was off. 7 bounciness, bounce, resiliency, resilience, springiness, buoyancy, elasticity, sprightliness, airiness, flexibility: Despite her age, there's still a lot of spring in her step. 8 source, fount, fountain-head, well-spring, well, origin, beginning, root: From what secret spring does his understanding arise? 9 springtime, Eastertide, Maytime: At 35, James is still in the spring of life. --adj. 10 vernal: We exulted in the spring sunshine.
SPRUCE|10|adj. 1 neat, dapper, smart, trim, well turned out, well-groomed, elegant, Colloq natty: Peter Thornton turned up for dinner looking as spruce as can be. --v. 2 spruce up. tidy (up), neaten (up), primp, clean (up), straighten out or up, smarten (up), titivate or tittivate: Some people are coming to dinner, so first spruce up your room and then spruce yourself up.
SPYING|8|n. espionage, undercover work, secret service; detection, intelligence, surveillance: Virtually every government engages in spying.
SQUARE|4|adj. 1 equilateral, quadrangular, rectangular, right-angled, quadrilateral, four-sided, cubic, cubed, six-sided, boxy: She bought a work of art consisting of three square pieces of red plastic on a mauve ground. He keeps trying to put square pegs into round holes. 2 equal, on a par, even, on equal terms, settled, balanced: With this payment, our accounts are now all square. 3 even, true, exact, straight, accurate, precise, correct: Make sure that the corners are perfectly square. 4 honourable, upright, honest, straightforward, fair (and square), decent, ethical, open, (open and) above-board, right, (right and) proper, clean, just, equitable, Colloq on the level, on the up and up: I have never had anything but square dealings with Fred Latham. 5 healthful, healthy, nutritious, substantial, solid, full, generous, satisfying, filling, unstinting: You could always count on three square meals a day when staying at Auntie Maisie's. 6 naìve, innocent; bourgeois, conservative, conventional, unsophisticated, provincial, old-fashioned, conformist, strait-laced, unimaginative, predictable, Colloq antediluvian, uptight, out of it, not with it, not in the know, not hip or hep, unhip, stuffy, behind the times, straight, US L-7: We were at the age when anyone over 25 was considered square. --n. 7 rectilinear figure, rectangle; cube, block: He took a square of wood and quickly carved it into the shape of a duck. 8 plaza, piazza, place, park, (village) green, market-place, market (square), agora, quadrangle: We like to sit on the benches in the square outside my house and chat with the neighbours. 9 bourgeois, conservative, conformist, traditionalist, (old) fogy or fogey, die-hard; outsider; Colloq stuffed shirt, fuddy-duddy, US longhair, L-7, Slang US nerd, dweeb: My parents did not understand me - they were real old squares. --v. 10 stiffen, throw back, straighten (up), tense: I squared my shoulders and prepared for the worst. 11 Usually, square with. meet, match (with), conform ...
SQUAWK|11|v. 1 cackle, screech, shriek, yell, yowl, whoop, hoot, scream, call, cry: The parrot kept squawking 'Where is the treasure? Where is the treasure?' 2 complain, grumble, whine, grouse, protest, object, (make a) fuss, yap, yowl, Slang bellyache, bitch, kick, beef, gripe, kick up a fuss: Oh, stop squawking and get on with your work! --n. 3 complaint, grouse, grumble, protest, Colloq kick, beef, gripe: If you have a squawk, take it up with the sergeant.
SQUIRE|4|v. 1 escort, accompany, conduct, go with, take; convoy: Who will squire my sisters to the prince's ball? --n. 2 esquire, gentleman, landowner, landholder, landed proprietor: The old squire held his head high among the county aristocracy.
SQUIRM|6|v. wriggle, writhe, twist, flounder, shift, fidget, be (very) uncomfortable, agonize, Colloq sweat: The boy squirmed under the stern gaze of the headmaster.
STABLE|3|adj. 1 steady, solid, firm, sound, sturdy, strong, durable, well-founded, fast, sure, established, deep-rooted, stout: The building is designed to remain stable even in a severe earthquake. 2 lasting, enduring, long-lasting, long-standing, secure, steadfast, steady, strong, unchanging, unchanged, unchangeable, unalterable, fixed, invariable, unwavering, immutable, permanent: A stable relationship has existed between our countries for generations. The relationship you and I enjoy has remained stable all our lives. 3 sane, (well-)balanced, responsible, reasonable, sensible, competent, accountable: He seemed a nice, stable young man, and nobody would have guessed that he had a drugs habit.
STANCE|8|n. carriage, bearing, deportment; position, posture, attitude, standpoint, stand, viewpoint, point of view: Legs apart and arms akimbo, she assumed a defiant stance at the door. Her stance was that she must protect the children at all costs.
STANCH|4|v. staunch, stop, stem, halt, check, arrest, stay, end, cease; prevent: Apply pressure with a pad to stanch the flow of blood from the wound.
STATIC|8|adj. 1 immovable, immobile, unmoving, motionless, stationary, fixed, stagnant, inert, still, unchanging, unchanged, changeless, unvarying, invariable, constant: The situation remained static for years. A living language is not static but dynamic. --n. 2 interference, noise, atmospherics; difficulty or difficulties, trouble, problem(s), Colloq flak: With all the static, I couldn't understand what she was saying. You can expect some static about being late for your wedding.
STATUE|6|n. sculpture, figure, figurine, statuette, carving, casting, model, bronze, image, icon or ikon, effigy, representation; bust, atlas, caryatid, colossus, figurehead, Biblical graven image: A statue of Disraeli stands in the market square of Aylesbury.
STATUS|6|n. 1 eminence, prominence, pre-eminence, standing, stature, importance, significance, repute, reputation, rank, station: Few could approach Keith's status as a pathologist. 2 See standing, 5, above.
STEADY|10|adj. 1 stable, firm, solid, substantial, sound, stout, strong: Is this chair steady enough to stand on? 2 even, regular, uniform, habitual, invariable, unvarying, unfluctuating, unwavering, undeviating, changeless, unchanging, continuous, constant; perpetual, non-stop, round-the-clock, persistent, uninterrupted, unbroken, unrelieved, unceasing, ceaseless, incessant, relentless, unremitting, never-ending, unending, endless: Steady trade winds could be relied on to carry vessels to the Caribbean. Inflation has remained steady for a year. How do the children manage to survive on a steady diet of junk food? The economists fear a steady rise in inflation. 3 unflinching, unblinking, fixed, constant, unfaltering, continuous, direct: The boy began to quail under the headmaster's steady gaze. 4 calm, cool, balanced, equable, controlled: Steady nerves are needed to handle this new breed of fighter plane. 5 devoted, firm, staunch, faithful, loyal, long-standing, inveterate, consistent, confirmed, persistent: The Pendergasts have always been steady supporters of the museum. 6 staid, sedate, sober, dignified, poised, sophisticated, civilized, sensible, down-to-earth, settled, serious, level-headed, reliable, Colloq unflappable: WANTED: Steady person as housekeeper to eccentric editor. --adv. 7 firmly, solidly: His wife was holding the ladder steady while he mended the gutter. 8 go steady. keep company, date, socialize: Is Jane still going steady with Hubert? --n. 9 boyfriend, girlfriend, (regular) fellow or girl, sweetheart, Colloq guy, gal, woman, man: Yes, Hubert is still Jane's steady. 10 regular, habitu÷, customer, frequenter, familiar face: Gil has been a steady here ever since we opened. --v. 11 stabilize, hold fast; brace, secure, support, strengthen: Prices steadied after the first hour of trading. To steady the table, merely tighten the screws holding the legs.
STEELY|7|adj. 1 greyish, grey: His steely blue eyes pierced deep into her soul. 2 iron, tough, indurate, adamant, adamantine, hard, strong, rugged, unyielding, flinty, sturdy: She was a woman of steely determination.
STENCH|4|n. stink, reek, noisomeness, mephitis, fetor or foetor, foul odour, effluvium, Colloq Brit pong: A terrible stench emanated from the cupboard. For decades their government has wallowed in the stench of corruption.
STICKY|7|adj. 1 gluey, gummy, viscous, tacky, glutinous, viscid, Colloq gooey: Children, please keep your sticky fingers off the car windows. 2 awkward, ticklish, tricky, sensitive, delicate, uncomfortable, discomfiting, discomforting, embarrassing, Slang hairy: Inviting Steve with his ex-wife might be a bit sticky, don't you think? 3 humid, clammy, dank, damp, muggy, close, sultry, oppressive, sweltering: The weather was oppressive and sticky, and they kept the fan on constantly.
STIFLE|9|v. 1 suffocate, smother, choke, strangle, throttle, asphyxiate: The firemen were almost stifled by the smoke from the chemical fire. 2 choke back, keep or hold back, withhold, repress, suppress, hold in, restrain, prevent, curb, cover up, control: I stifled a yawn as John went on about his grandchildren. 3 destroy, crush, demolish, extinguish, stamp out, kill, quash, silence, stop, check: Under his tyrannical rule all artistic creativity was stifled for fifty years.
STIGMA|9|n. brand, (bad) mark, blot, smirch, stain, spot, taint, blemish, demerit, blot on the escutcheon, Brit blot in one's copybook: Bankruptcy is no longer the social stigma that it used to be.
STOCKY|7|adj. thickset, sturdy, chunky, dumpy, solid, stumpy, burly, beefy, heavy-set, squat, pyknic, mesomorphic: He is stocky and powerfully built.
STODGY|11|adj. stuffy, dull, heavy, ponderous, elephantine, boring, tedious, humdrum, tiresome, turgid, uninteresting, unimaginative, dry-as-dust, jejune, vapid, dreary, flat, colourless, bland, Colloq ho-hum, blah, deadly: The speaker was boring and gave the stodgiest talk I have ever heard.
STOLID|7|adj. impassive, dull, doltish, obtuse, thick, dense, bovine, wooden, slow, lumpish, unemotional, clod-like, phlegmatic, lethargic, apathetic, indifferent, uninterested: He was a stolid character, very different from his dynamic younger brother.
STOREY|9|n. floor, level, tier, Chiefly US story: The new building is five storeys high.
STORMY|11|adj. 1 violent, tempestuous, blustery, turbulent, wild, howling, raging, roaring, foul, nasty, bad, not fit for man or beast, inclement: It was always stormy along the eastern coast of the island. 2 violent, tempestuous, turbulent, fierce, fiery, frantic, frenetic, nerve-racking or nerve-wracking, frenzied, feverish, raving, wild: He and Kate enjoyed - if that is the right word - a stormy relationship for thirty years.
STRAIN|6|v. 1 stretch, force, tax, overtax, burden, overburden, overwork, push; exceed, surpass: His story that a bushy-haired intruder had shot her strained the jury's credulity. 2 push, pull, tug, heave, stretch, twist, wrench, struggle: As he strained at his bonds the rope cut more deeply into his wrists. 3 injure, hurt, harm, impair, damage, overwork, tax, pull, tear, twist, wrench: I strained my back lifting that box of books. 4 stretch, crane, twist; try (hard), struggle, strive, labour, toil, push, make an effort, exert oneself: She strained to catch a glimpse of the prince. They strained to hear every word. 5 filter, sift, drain, screen, sieve; winnow, draw off, separate; purify, seep, percolate: Strain the soup to remove the bones. Strain the dregs from the wine. The water is then strained through sand. --n. 6 sprain, injury, damage, harm, wrench: Strains often hurt more than broken bones. 7 anxiety, worry; effort, exertion, stress, tension, pressure, burden; tax, demand, obligation: The strain began to tell on all of us. Another rope was needed to relieve the strain on the first. This advertising budget will put a great strain on our resources. 8 Often, strains. air, melody, tune, song, sound, music: In the distance I made out the faint strains of skirling bagpipes. 9 tenor, tone, drift, inclination, tendency, quality, spirit, mood, humour, character, complexion, cast, impression, thread, vein, theme: I detected a mellowing strain in her letters.
STRAIT|6|adj. 1 narrow, tight, constricted, constricting, confining, confined, restricting, restricted, limited, limiting, rigorous, demanding, exacting; difficult, straitened: Strait is the gate and narrow is the way which leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it. --n. 2 Usually (except in gazetteers), straits. narrows, channel: We coasted through the Straits of Magellan with all sails flying. 3 dire or desperate or sore straits. bad or poor state or condition, trouble, predicament, plight, mess, dilemma, tight spot, hot water, US bind Colloq pickle, jam, scrape, pretty or fine kettle of fish, US box: We shall be in dire straits if father's cheque doesn't come soon.
STREAM|8|n. 1 brook, brooklet, streamlet, rivulet, tributary, river, freshet, run, watercourse, waterway, channel, Chiefly literary rill, runnel, Literary or N Brit dialect beck, burn, Archaic NE US except in placenames kill, US creek, branch: If the streams continue to swell, flooding can be expected in low-lying areas. 2 flow, current, outpouring, effluence or efflux, effusion, rush, spurt, surge, fountain, geyser, torrent, flood, deluge, cataract, cascade: A stream of bubbles showed where the diver was swimming. A stream of obscenities poured from his lips. 3 flow, rush, swarm, tide, flood, deluge, succession, series, row, line, string, chain, barrage, Brit queue: Simon has had a constant stream of visitors all morning. --v. 4 run, flow, course, glide, rush, slide, slip, surge; pour, issue, emanate, gush, flood, spout, well up or out or forth, squirt, spurt, shoot, jet; cascade: The rain streamed down the windows. 5 issue, emanate; rush, surge, pour, flood, file, proceed, march, walk, move: People streamed in and out of the building all day long.
STREET|4|n. 1 thoroughfare, way, road, roadway, high road, avenue, concourse, boulevard, lane, drive, terrace, circle, row, passage, alley, byway: I don't know the name of the street where she lives. 2 up (someone's) Brit street or US alley. (someone's) cup of tea, in (someone's) bailiwick, suiting (someone) to a T: Crossword puzzles are very much up Eugene's street.
STRESS|4|n. 1 emphasis, force, pressure, forcefulness, accent, accentuation, prominence, Technical ictus: Many people place the stress on the first syllable of 'controversy'. 2 emphasis, significance, importance, weight, force, insistence, urgency: She lays too much stress on looks. 3 (stress and) strain, burden, anxiety, worry, distress, pain, grief, suffering, anguish, pressure, tenseness, tension: She has four elderly people to care for, and the stress is beginning to show. --v. 4 emphasize, accent, accentuate, lay stress or emphasis on, underscore, underline, mark, note, make a point of, bring home, focus on, bring into prominence, spotlight, feature, highlight: The conference succeeded in stressing the importance of a good home life. 5 strain, put under strain or stress, upset, disturb, burden, worry, distress, Brit pressurize or US pressure: Duncan was terribly stressed after a few months in the new job.
STRICT|8|adj. 1 rigorous, narrow, close, undeviating, confining, constricting, constrictive, rigid, defined, precise, exact, exacting, stringent, meticulous, compulsive, punctilious, finicky or finical, scrupulous, attentive, conscientious, faithful, thorough, complete: The judge's strict interpretation of the law left no room for leniency or sympathy. 2 severe, austere, authoritarian, autocratic, stern, firm, hard, tough, uncompromising, inflexible, cold-blooded, iron-fisted, tyrannical, harsh, ruthless, pitiless, unsympathetic: Miss Wells is remembered by all her students as a strict disciplinarian.
STRIKE|10|v. 1 hit, deal a blow to, knock, smack, thump, thwack, crown, cuff, punch, smite; beat, hammer, belabour, batter, pummel or pommel, pelt, buffet, thrash; cudgel, bludgeon, club, whip, horsewhip, scourge, lash, cane, flog, birch, slap, Colloq wallop, slug, whack, clout, sock, conk, belt, bash, lambaste, bop: Small wonder he struck you after what you called his wife. 2 deliver, deal, aim, direct: He struck a blow for freedom. 3 hit, collide with, land on or in or against, smash or bump or bang or crash or dash into, go or run into, impact: Mrs Humphrey's car went out of control and struck a tree. 4 remove, take away, take apart, dismantle, knock down; take or pull or haul down: Stage-hands struck the set. As the wind piped up we struck the mainsail. 5 Usually, strike off or from or out. obliterate, expunge, erase, eradicate, blot out, delete, scratch, eliminate, rub out, cross (out), cancel, wipe out, US x out: After the scandal, his name was struck off the register. Strike out any references that might be thought libellous. 6 light, ignite: He struck a match to see where he was going. 7 affect, impress, influence, afflict, Colloq hit: The death of her kitten struck Mandy to the heart. 8 make, reach, attain, conclude; agree or settle (on), ratify, confirm: We struck a bargain on the sale of the car. 9 occur or come to, dawn on or upon, Colloq hit, register (with): It suddenly struck me that you are leaving tomorrow. 10 impress, print, stamp, punch, mint, make: They have struck a new gold coin for collectors. 11 instil, implant, induce: Horror films struck fear into our hearts when we were children. 12 assume, adopt, put on, display, affect, take on, feign: He struck a supercilious pose of insouciant hauteur that annoyed her intensely. 13 Often, strike down. afflict, affect, attack, indispose, incapacitate, disable, cripple, invalid: Polio struck her down in the prime of life. 14 encounter, come or happen or hit upon, come across, chance upon, discover, stumble on, fin...
STRING|3|n. 1 line, cord, thread, twine, fibre, rope, cable, ligament, strand, filament: To fly a kite one needs the right weight of string. 2 leash, lead, leader: Why does he let her drag him around on the end of a string? 3 line, row, series, sequence, succession, chain, procession, stream, train, file, Chiefly Brit queue: A string of coincidences led to their meeting again after twenty years. 4 necklace, chain, loop, strand, dog-collar, choker, chaplet, wreath, riviëre, Archaic carcanet: In her hair was a string of pearls. 5 pull strings or wires. use or exert influence, Colloq throw one's weight around: He had to pull strings to get his son a job on the paper. 6 pull the strings. be in control, control, run, operate, dominate, be in command, be in the driver's seat, hold the reins, manipulate: She is the one who pulls the strings when it comes to new investments. 7 strings. conditions, stipulations, provisos, qualifications, requirements, prerequisites, terms, obligations, limitations, provisions, musts, Colloq catches: I might have known that there would be strings attached to their offer of a free holiday in Corfu. --v. 8 thread, join: The children were busy stringing beads to make necklaces. 9 Often, string together or up. loop, festoon, link, drape, suspend, sling, hang, array, concatenate, chain together: At holiday time, coloured lights are strung round the town square. 10 string along. a follow, go along (with), agree, concur, collaborate: I said I would string along with the plan for the time being. b keep waiting or dangling, keep on a string, keep on tenterhooks, Colloq play fast and loose with (someone): She's just stringing you along till her boyfriend comes back. c fool, deceive, bluff, dupe, cheat, trick, hoax, Colloq take someone for a ride, put one or something over on (someone): They strung Harold along for months before they made off with his life savings. 11 string out. a stretch, reach, extend: The line of refugees strung out as far as one could see....
STRIPE|8|n. 1 band, bar, striation, strip, streak, line, stroke, slash, length: Each railway car has a bright orange stripe along each side. 2 style, kind, sort, class, type, complexion, character, nature, description, persuasion, kidney, feather: These new students are of a completely different stripe.
STRIVE|9|v. 1 endeavour, strain, struggle, make every effort, attempt, try (hard), do one's best or utmost, exert oneself, work at, Colloq give (it) one's all, go all out: Jim strove to keep his self-control. Jennie strives for perfection in all she does. 2 compete, contend, fight: One must often strive against unbelievable odds to achieve a goal.
STROKE|10|n. 1 blow, rap, tap, thump, knock, smack, whack, swipe, slam, strike, Colloq wallop: One stroke of the hammer and the nail went in. 2 action, motion, go, move, movement, feat, achievement: She won the leading role and defeated her shyness at one stroke. 3 flourish, movement, gesture; mark, dash, Colloq splash: With a stroke of the pen the man's fate was sealed. 4 beat, throb, pulse, pulsation, thump: His heart was beating at exactly 72 strokes a minute. 5 attack, seizure, fit, apoplexy, apoplectic fit, spasm, paralytic attack or fit; Technical embolism, thrombosis, cerebrovascular accident, aneurysm: Gerry has been incapacitated since he had a stroke. 6 pat, touch, caress: A few strokes of her fingers on my brow and the headache was gone. 7 achievement, accomplishment, feat, act, action, work; example; touch: Your idea of having a jazz concert to raise money is a stroke of genius. 8 bit, jot or tittle, scrap, iota, touch, stitch, hint, suggestion: You haven't done a stroke of work all morning. 9 occurrence, happening, matter: It was just a stroke of luck that I came along when I did. --v. 10 caress, pet, pat, fondle; massage, rub, soothe: His heart beat faster when she stroked his hand lightly with her fingertips.
STROLL|4|v. 1 amble, saunter, ramble, walk, wander, promenade, meander, stray, Colloq mosey: I think I'll stroll over and buy a newspaper. --n. 2 amble, ramble, saunter, walk, wander, promenade, meander, constitutional: Father rarely missed his Sunday stroll in the park.
STRONG|7|adj. 1 powerful, muscular, mighty, brawny, strapping, robust, sturdy, stalwart, burly, stout, sinewy, athletic, wiry, Colloq beefy, hefty, husky: He was so strong he carried both wounded men 500 yards to safety. 2 powerful, concentrated, intense, pungent, potent, sharp, piquant, acrid, heady, penetrating, aromatic, fragrant, hot, spicy: There was a strong odour of ammonia. The flavour is a little too strong for my taste. 3 smelly, odoriferous, noisome, stinking, foul, mephitic, miasmic, putrid, putrescent, rotten: There is a strong smell of rotting flesh. 4 concentrated, undiluted, potent, intensified: How can you drink such strong coffee and still sleep? 5 vigorous, active, dynamic, energetic, eager, unflagging, tireless, unfailing, diligent, indefatigable, staunch, true-blue, steadfast, dedicated, enthusiastic, ardent, fervent, fervid, vehement, rabid, zealous, resolute, determined, unwavering, unswerving, firm, uncompromising, regular, persistent, tenacious, sedulous, assiduous, hard-working: We could use other strong party supporters like Sandy. 6 competent, talented, skilled, qualified, knowledgeable, able, experienced, well-versed, trained, efficient, capable: We are looking for someone who is particularly strong in writing advertising copy. 7 influential, persuasive, convincing, compelling, trenchant, unmistakable or unmistakeable, telling, great, profound; effective, efficacious, effectual, powerful, formidable: His evidence had a strong effect on the jury. She was taking very strong medicine for her migraine. 8 well-supported, irrefutable, well-substantiated, cogent, forceful, substantial, convincing, conclusive: The police made out a very strong case against her for premeditated murder. 9 well-established, well-founded, redoubtable, substantial, powerful, formidable: The position inside the fortress was quite strong. 10 likely, definite, substantial, good, better than average, reasonable, sizeable: There is a strong possibility that she will be elected. Sa...
STUFFY|7|adj. 1 close, airless, unventilated, oppressive, stifling, suffocating, stale, musty, fusty, mouldy, mildewy, muggy, fetid or foetid, frowzy or frouzy or frowsy, Brit frowsty: It was stuffy in the ancient tomb. 2 pompous, pedantic, self-important, self-centred, stodgy, old-fogyish or old-fogeyish, old-fashioned, strait-laced, staid, conventional, prim (and proper), priggish, niminy-piminy, stilted, stiff, rigid, Colloq fuddy-duddy, uptight: What a bore to be trapped for an entire evening with those stuffy old codgers!
STUPID|9|adj. 1 unintelligent, fatuous, obtuse, bovine, dull, dense, lumpish, doltish, simple, simple-minded, moronic, imbecilic, cretinous, Boeotian, subnormal, feeble-minded, weak-minded, stolid, dull-witted, dim, dim-witted, halfwitted, thick, thick-witted, thickheaded, slow-witted, witless, brainless, mindless, empty-headed, bird-brained, feather-brained, feather-headed, rattle-brained, rattle-headed, ox-like, boneheaded, addle-pated, addle-headed, addled, Chiefly Brit imbecile, Chiefly US dumb, jerky, thimble-witted, Colloq dopey, Brit dozy: He seemed really stupid in comparison with his precocious younger sister. 2 foolish, silly, frivolous, asinine, hare-brained, crazy, insane, mad, crack-brained, scatterbrained, absurd, inane, idiotic, ridiculous, risible, laughable, ludicrous, nonsensical, senseless, bootless, irresponsible, irrational, ill-advised, foolhardy, half-baked, Colloq cuckoo, cock-eyed, damn-fool, Chiefly Brit daft, barmy or balmy, US cockamamie or cockamamy: He came up with one stupid plan after another. 3 insipid, dull, tedious, boring, tiresome, humdrum, prosaic, monotonous, unimaginative, uninspired, uninteresting, vapid, vacuous, Colloq ho-hum: Most sitcoms feature stupid characters doing stupid things.
STURDY|10|adj. 1 strong, solid, stout, rugged, tough, well-built, substantial; strapping, muscular, powerful, brawny, burly, robust, well-muscled, athletic, hardy, Colloq husky, hefty: This ladder should be sturdy enough to hold you. James got that sturdy build from exercise. 2 stalwart, staunch, steadfast, resolute, firm, vigorous, determined, uncompromising, unyielding, unwavering, unswerving, unfaltering, enduring, indomitable: One must admire her sturdy independence in the face of all that criticism.
STYMIE|11|v. thwart, obstruct, block, frustrate, snooker, defeat, spike, ruin, foil, confound, stump, nonplus, hinder, impede, Colloq flummox: The government has stymied all efforts to have him extradited.
SUBDUE|9|v. 1 put or beat down, quell, repress, suppress, quash, crush, control, master, overpower, gain mastery or control or the upper hand over, get the better of, dominate, triumph over, hold or keep in check, bridle, tame: Having subdued the uprising, government forces are again in control. 2 conquer, vanquish, defeat, overcome: The Mongol horde subdued all the people in their path. 3 quiet(en) or tone down, moderate, mellow, temper, soften, soft-pedal, check, curb, control: His anger was subdued by her calm words.
SUBMIT|10|v. 1 Often, submit to. surrender (to), yield (to), capitulate (to), give in or up (to), comply (with), agree (to), concede (to), consent (to), accede (to), defer (to), bow or bend (to), succumb (to), truckle (to), knuckle under (to), resign (oneself) (to), be or become resigned (to); respect, accept, Colloq put up with: Despite the threats, he refused to submit. The government eventually submitted to the union's demands. 2 offer, proffer, tender, enter, propose, present: Many of the suggestions that Alan submitted have been accepted.
SUBTLE|8|adj. 1 delicate, fine, refined, exquisite, nice, Archaic subtile: I became aware, almost subconsciously, of the subtle odour of jasmine. These subtle shades of green are so peaceful. 2 abstruse, arcane, recondite, remote, deep, profound, concealed, hidden, shadowy, nebulous, vague, obscure, veiled, thin, airy, insubstantial, elusive, faint; sophistic(al): The symbolism is so subtle as to be meaningful to the poet alone. A subtle hint gave me to understand that I ought to go. 3 tricky, shrewd, cunning, wily, sly, devious, crafty, smart, clever, foxy, artful, scheming, designing, underhand(ed), deceptive, Jesuitical, Machiavellian, ingenious, skilful, strategic, insidious, casuistic, shifty, slick, slimy, Chiefly Brit smarmy: You were a fool to allow that subtle serpent to insinuate himself into your confidence.
SUBWAY|14|n. 1 Brit underground (railway), tube: She takes the subway to work. 2 US tunnel, underpass: Use the subway to cross the road in safety.
SUCKER|4|n. dupe, goat, gull, victim, butt, cat's-paw, fool, Colloq (easy) mark, easy or fair game, chump, pushover, soft touch, Chiefly US and Canadian fall guy, Slang sap, pigeon, Brit mug, Chiefly US and Canadian patsy: He's asking far too much for his car, but some sucker will buy it.
SUDDEN|4|adj. unexpected, unannounced, unanticipated, unforeseen; unwonted, surprising, startling; precipitate, abrupt, quick, immediate, rapid, swift, brisk; impetuous, hasty, rash, impulsive: His sudden turn caught us off balance. Your change of heart was quite sudden.
SUFFER|4|v. 1 Sometimes, suffer from or with. agonize, smart, hurt, writhe, sweat, ache: He is suffering with a stomach virus. How terribly they suffered when their child was kidnapped! 2 endure, undergo, experience, bear, live or go through, tolerate, withstand, sustain, take, submit to, abide, submit to, Colloq put up with: He suffered years of ill-health before he finally died. 3 allow, tolerate, permit, let, admit, humour, indulge: They suffer the storks to build their nests on their chimneys. 4 deteriorate, diminish, decline, go down, fall off, be reduced or diminished: If you discontinue advertising, sales will suffer.
SUFFIX|11|n. 1 ending, desinence, addition; affix: The suffix -ness is added to many English adjectives to form nouns. --v. 2 add (on), join, fasten to, subjoin, amend, Colloq tack on: One can suffix -ness to a huge number of adjectives to form nouns.
SUITOR|6|n. admirer, beau, wooer; boyfriend, paramour, lover, inamorato, cicisbeo, escort, Archaic swain: Madelaine has more suitors than I can count.
SULLEN|4|adj. sulky, sulking, morose, brooding, pouting, gloomy, moody, temperamental, dour, lugubrious, funereal, dismal, dreary, grim, depressing, depressed, churlish, ill-humoured, glum, grumpy, sombre, out of humour, antisocial, unsociable, cross, petulant, perverse, crusty, crotchety, choleric, crabby, ill-natured, ill-tempered, bad-tempered, splenetic, peevish, dyspeptic, out of sorts, US cranky: He remained quite sullen and refused to associate with anyone.
SULTRY|9|adj. 1 hot, humid, sticky, stuffy, stifling, oppressive, close, muggy, steamy, steaming, moist, damp, sweltering, suffocating: I was happy to be languishing again in the sultry warmth of St Lucia. 2 lusty, lustful, passionate, erotic, seductive, voluptuous, provocative, sensual, Colloq sexy, hot: She continued her sultry, slow, sinuous dance.
SUMMIT|4|n. peak, top, apex, acme, pinnacle, zenith, crown; culmination, climax: The winds at the summit of Annapurna reached hurricane force. There was no doubt that I had reached the summit of my achievements.
SUMMON|4|v. 1 call, assemble, convoke, convene, send for, invite, muster, get together, arouse, rouse: Why would he summon us to the office at midnight? 2 Often, summon up. call or draw on or upon, draw up, mobilize, muster (up), work up, gather, invoke: I had to summon up all my courage to ask Eve to go out.
SUNDRY|10|adj. various, varied, miscellaneous, assorted, different, mixed, diversified, divers: In addition to food, supermarkets stock sundry other items.
SUNKEN|10|adj. 1 hollow, hollowed-out, haggard, drawn: From her sunken cheeks the child looked as if she hadn't eaten for weeks. 2 submerged, undersea, underwater, submersed: The boat hit a sunken wreck and foundered. 3 buried, underground, in-ground, below-ground, settled, lowered: The old term for a sunken fence is 'ha-ha'.
SUPERB|10|adj. wonderful, marvellous, excellent, superior, gorgeous, glorious, magnificent, outstanding, exquisite, fine, splendid, unequalled, sensational, noteworthy, admirable, peerless, matchless, unrivalled, first-rate, superlative, perfect, classic, exceptional, extraordinary, striking, brilliant, dazzling, miraculous, incredible, unbelievable, fantastic, fabulous, stupendous, staggering, mind-boggling, breathtaking, Woman's dialect divine, Colloq great, super, smashing, magic, terrific, fantabulous, unreal, out of this world, mind-blowing, super, Slang out of sight, far-out, boss, solid, cool, hot, bad: The curator said he had never seen such a superb collection. She does a superb Hedda Gabler. We were treated to a superb dinner.
SUPPLE|4|adj. 1 flexible, flexile, pliant, bendable, elastic, resilient, pliable, tractile, fictile: He made a rug-beater out of some supple lengths of bamboo. 2 willowy, lithe, limber, nimble, pliant, lissom or lissome, graceful, athletic: She has the supple body of a dancer. 3 tractable, compliant, yielding, accommodating, obliging, complaisant, acquiescent, submissive, unresistant, unresisting, servile, obsequious, ingratiating, fawning, toadying: With supple words the miserable sycophant wormed his way into father's confidence.
SUPPLY|7|v. 1 furnish, provide, give, endow, present, purvey, deliver, come up with, contribute, distribute, sell; stock, accommodate, afford, equip, outfit, gear (up), rig (out), fit (out), provision, cater to, Chiefly Brit kit out or up; victual: Her company supplies radios to the army. Her husband's firm supplies the navy with anti-fouling paint. 2 yield, give, contribute, come up with, deliver, provide, furnish: The farm supplies our basic foods. 3 satisfy, fulfil, replenish, fill: Can you supply the demand for clothing? --n. 4 stock, stockpile, store, inventory, quantity, reservoir, reserve, cache, hoard, accumulation, fund: Our supply is big enough to serve the entire area. 5 furnishing, provision, providing, purveying, supplying, distribution, equipping, outfitting, provisioning, delivery, stocking, stockpiling: The supply of microchips on a large scale is beyond our capacity.
SURELY|9|adv. 1 certainly, to be sure, positively, absolutely, definitely, undoubtedly, indubitably, unquestionably, beyond the shadow of a doubt, beyond question, doubtless, doubtlessly, assuredly, Colloq sure, US absotively-posolutely: He is surely one of the finest riders I've ever seen. 2 firmly, solidly, confidently, unfalteringly, steadily, unswervingly, unhesitatingly, determinedly, doggedly, securely: Slowly but surely, the Great Bamboni stepped out onto the tightrope stretched across the Reichenbach Falls.
SURVEY|12|v. 1 examine, appraise, evaluate, take the measure of, inspect, study, scan, scrutinize, measure, size up, assess, investigate, look into or over, review: He surveyed the situation and found nothing wrong. 2 view, look at, get a bird's eye view of, contemplate: From the top of the tower I surveyed the surrounding countryside. --n. 3 surveying, examination, appraisal, evaluation, measure, study, scan, scanning, scrutiny, inquiry or enquiry, measurement, investigation, inspection: Our survey of the company finances yielded some very interesting information.
SWANKY|16|adj. smart, stylish, fashionable, chic, chichi, fancy, luxurious, grand, elegant, Colloq swank, snazzy, neat, nifty, plush, posh, ritzy, Brit swish: Living in a swanky house and wearing swanky clothes - what else would anyone want?
SWATHE|7|v. tie, bind, bandage, wrap, enwrap, swaddle, bundle (up), envelop, shroud, muffle (up): I can't tell who he is as his head is swathed in bandages.
SWERVE|12|v. veer, career, swing, diverge, deviate, sheer off, skew, stray, turn (aside): The car swerved wildly off the road and into a ditch.
SWITCH|7|n. 1 twitch, lash, rod, whip, birch (rod), scourge: He picked up the switch as if to hit me with it. 2 change, alteration, exchange, shift, change-over, reversal, deflection, trade, swap or swop: A switch of costume was done swiftly backstage, yielding the expression 'quick-change artist'. --v. 3 twitch, lash, whip, birch, beat, strike, thrash, scourge, flog: The headmaster switched the boys for the slightest misdemeanour. 4 change, shift, exchange, divert, deviate: The colonel switched to another subject. They switched the two stones, leaving the fake emerald. 5 divert, turn, rechannel, redirect, direct: They switched the funds to another project.
SWIVEL|12|v. 1 pivot, turn, rotate, spin, revolve, pirouette, move freely: This joint allows the arm to swivel in all directions. --n. 2 pivot, elbow-joint, gimbal, ball-and-socket joint: The stern-chaser is fitted with a swivel, allowing it to be fired at any angle.
SYMBOL|13|n. representation, figure, metaphor, allegory, insigne (singular; plural is insignia), token, sign, emblem, badge, image, logotype, mark, trade mark, colophon, brand, code, abbreviation, phonogram, initialism, cryptogram, acronym, monogram, password, shibboleth, watchword, code word; arms, bearing, armorial bearing, crest, escutcheon, coat of arms, banner, flag, pennant, standard, Colloq logo: This jewel is a mere symbol of my devotion and love for you.
SYSTEM|11|n. 1 organized whole, organization, set, group, combination; structure, arrangement, pattern, set-up: Some believe that the universe is a vast ordered system, others that it is chaos in which only man sees order. It took years to establish the banking system in this country. 2 scheme, method, approach, modus operandi, way, procedure, methodology, technique, plan, process, practice, routine: There is a proper system for doing the job and you should keep to it.
TABLET|3|n. 1 (scribbling or writing- or note- or memo) pad, (spiral(-bound)) notebook, US scratch pad: I write all my dreams in a little tablet in case I forget to relate them to my psychiatrist. 2 slab, plaque, plate, panel, plaquette: The tablet on the base of the statue says it is of Disraeli. 3 stone, gravestone, headstone, tombstone, memorial: We each contributed to the tablet that marks Croombender's grave. 4 pill, capsule, troche, pellet, pastille, drop, lozenge, bolus: Take three tablets twice a day.
TACTIC|10|n. 1 move, manoeuvre, ploy, caper, plan, strategy, stratagem, device, ruse, plot, scheme, design: Inviting her husband along was a tactic merely to avert suspicion. 2 tactics. manoeuvres, strategy, plans, campaign, generalship, military science, military operation(s), orchestration, engineering, masterminding: Entirely different tactics must be employed in jungle fighting.
TAILOR|6|n. 1 couturier, couturiëre, costumier, dressmaker, modiste, clothier, garment-maker, outfitter, seamstress: She has all her clothing made by her tailor. --v. 2 fit, adapt, suit, adjust, alter, accommodate, modify, change, convert, cut, fashion, mould, stretch, accustom: Your telephone system can be tailored to your most exacting demands.
TAKING|7|adj. attractive, alluring, engaging, captivating, winning, winsome, charming, entrancing, enchanting, bewitching, fetching, fascinating, delightful, irresistible, compelling, intriguing, prepossessing: Cassie's taking ways won her many friends.
TALENT|6|n. 1 ability, power, gift, faculty, flair, genius, facility, aptitude, capacity, knack, ingenuity, forte, strength; endowment: Bill's extraordinary talent for playing the trombone was widely acclaimed. 2 tendency, proclivity, propensity, penchant, predilection, predisposition, bent, inclination: Annabel certainly has a talent for saying the wrong thing.
TAMPER|10|v. interfere, meddle, intermeddle, intrude, tinker, mess (about or around), Colloq fiddle or fool (about or around), monkey (around), muck (about): Anyone caught tampering with the machinery will be prosecuted.
TANGLE|7|n. 1 confusion, knot, gnarl, mesh, snarl, twist, kink, entanglement, jam, snag, jumble, mess, skein, web, coil: It took hours to straighten out the tangle of ribbons. 2 muddle, complication, jumble, puzzle, medley, complexity, complication, scramble, mishmash, mix-up, hotchpotch or US and Canadian also hodgepodge, jungle, maze, labyrinth: She was rather bewildered by the vast tangle of information on the subject. --v. 3 Often, tangle up. confuse, knot, mesh, snarl, gnarl, twist, kink, ravel, entangle, jam, snag, intertwist, intertwine, interlace, interweave, jumble, mess up, scramble, shuffle, muddle: Now you've tangled all the ribbons I carefully straightened out earlier. 4 Often, tangle with. wrangle (with), contend (with), fight (with or against), (come into) conflict (with), come or go up against, lock horns (with), dispute, cross swords (with), disagree (with): The sheriff is the last person I want to tangle with.
TARGET|7|n. goal, object, objective, aim, end; butt, quarry: The target of the charity drive is to raise ø30,000. Why make Peter the target of your ridicule?
TARIFF|4|n. 1 tax, assessment, duty, excise, levy, impost, toll, Brit rate: The tariff on imported clothing may be increased. 2 schedule (of charges), price-list; bill of fare, menu: I stopped by the hotel to ask about their tariff.
TATTER|4|n. 1 Often, tatters. scrap(s), rag(s), shred(s), bit(s), piece(s): Tatters from the culprit's clothing were found on a thorn-bush. 2 in tatters. in ruins, in shreds, destroyed, ruined, shattered, in disarray, demolished: My life has been in tatters ever since she left me.
TATTLE|4|v. 1 blab, tell, reveal or divulge, give away secrets, Slang squeal: Though sworn to silence, Davis tattled. 2 gossip, prattle, prate, babble, chatter, jabber, blather or blether, Brit natter, witter, Slang yack: The old crones were tattling away in the kitchen.
TEDIUM|9|n. tediousness, monotony, changelessness, invariability, long-windedness, wearisomeness, tiresomeness, boredom, ennui, dreariness, dullness, drabness, colourlessness, vapidity, insipidity, insipidness, two-dimensionality, banality, routine, repetitiousness: How do you survive the tedium of getting up and going to an office every day?
TEETER|4|v. balance, wobble, rock, sway, totter, waver, tremble, stagger: She screamed when she saw Bruce teetering on the edge of the precipice.
TEMPER|10|n. 1 mood, disposition, temperament, humour, state or frame of mind, character, personality, nature, make-up, constitution: Practising law did not suit his temper, so he became a social worker. 2 composure, self-control, self-possession, calmness, equanimity, balance, sang-froid, coolness, Colloq cool: He would lose his temper if she ever mentioned another man. 3 ill humour, ill temper, foul temper, irascibility, irritability, petulance, volatility, peevishness, huffishness, surliness, churlishness, hotheadedness, hot-bloodedness: At the first sign of temper, just ignore him. 4 (temper) tantrum, fury, fit (of pique), rage, passion, Colloq Brit wax, paddy: She went off into a temper at the mere mention of his name. --v. 5 modify, moderate, assuage, mollify, soften, cushion, tone down, allay, soothe, mitigate, palliate, reduce, relax, slacken, lighten, appease: The cold currents from the poles are tempered by the equatorial waters. She used all her wiles to temper his fury. 6 anneal, toughen, strengthen, harden: Plunge the heated blade into water to temper it.
TEMPLE|10|n. place or house of worship, holy place, house of God, church, synagogue, mosque, pagoda, cathedral, sanctuary, chapel, shrine, Yiddish shul or schul: Temples to gods are found throughout the world.
TENANT|6|n. occupant, lessee, renter, leaseholder, occupier, resident, inhabitant: We could not redecorate the premises while the tenants were there.
TENDER|7|adj. 1 sensitive, delicate, fragile, frail, infirm, unstable, shaky, weak, feeble, unwell, sickly, ailing, unsound: His condition is still a bit too tender for him to go outside. 2 chewable, edible, eatable, soft: The steak will become more tender if it is marinated. 3 young, youthful, immature, juvenile, inexperienced, impressionable, vulnerable, green, new, raw, undeveloped, untrained, uninitiated, callow: At his tender age he could not have known about such things. 4 sensitive, touchy, ticklish, dangerous, troublesome, provocative, difficult, tricky: Please avoid mentioning the wedding, it's a tender subject around here. 5 gentle, soft, delicate, light, sensitive, soothing: Oh, how he yearned for her tender touch at his fevered brow. 6 kind, kind-hearted, loving, affectionate, fond, gentle, mild, compassionate, considerate, humane, benevolent, sympathetic, feeling, thoughtful, soft-hearted, warm, caring, merciful, solicitous, tender-hearted, warm-hearted, good-natured: Wounded and helpless, he succumbed to the tender care of the nurses. 7 touching, emotional, moving, stirring, soul-stirring, heart-rending, heartfelt, passionate, impassioned, impassionate, poignant, sentimental, mawkish, maudlin: Who could forget the tender scene as Cedric bade farewell to his mother and went off to war? 8 sore, raw, painful, sensitive, inflamed; smarting, burning, hurting, aching, agonizing: This spot, right here, is so tender that it hurts just to think about it. 9 loving, affectionate, amatory, amorous, adoring, romantic: They exchanged tender, knowing looks. n. 1 dinghy, gig, skiff, launch, boat, row-boat or rowing-boat, jolly-boat: The yacht moved easily through the water towing a tender. 2 wagon, truck, vehicle: The tender of Felix's toy train was filled with sweets for his birthday.
TENURE|6|n. 1 possession, holding, occupancy, incumbency, tenantry, tenancy, occupation, residency, residence: The laws on tenure are extremely complicated. 2 (job) security, permanence, permanency: After five years he was automatically guaranteed tenure.
TERROR|4|n. 1 fright, dread, fear, horror, panic, shock, alarm, anxiety, dismay, consternation, intimidation, awe: They felt a sense of terror when they caught sight of the enemy forces. 2 scourge, demon, brute, monster, fiend, devil, US mad dog: The gang of teenagers was the terror of the neighbourhood. Her daughter is a little terror.
TETHER|4|n. 1 lead, leash, rope, cord, fetter, restraint, halter, tie, chain: The dog had broken loose from its tether and was running around in the yard. --v. 2 tie (up or down), restraint, fetter, chain (up or down), leash, manacle, secure, shackle, fasten, picket, stake: Why don't you tether the goat where the grass is more plentiful?
THESIS|4|n. 1 argument, theory, proposition, point, contention, belief, idea, premise or premiss, assumption, view, assertion, precept, opinion, notion, theorem, axiom, postulate: Think how many centuries it took man to come to grips with the thesis that all men are created equal. 2 See theme, 2, above.
THIRST|4|n. 1 craving, desire, appetite, hunger, eagerness, avidity, ravenousness, voracity, voraciousness, lust, passion, enthusiasm, fancy, hankering, longing, yearning, Colloq itch, yen: It was the thirst for gold that drove them mad. She has an insatiable thirst for knowledge. --v. 2 Often, thirst for or after. crave, desire, hunger for or after, lust for or after, fancy, hanker for or after, long for, yearn for, wish for: These men are thirsting for power.
THORNY|7|adj. 1 prickly, barbed, spiny, spiked, brambly, spinous, Technical spinose, acanthoid, spiculose, spiculate, spinulose, aciculate, muricate, barbellate, setigerous, setaceous, setiferous, setose: The insect's feet have tiny thorny projections. 2 difficult, hard, tough, prickly, nettlesome, painful, ticklish, delicate, intricate, critical, complex, complicated, problematic, vexatious, knotty, tangled, involved, troublesome, controversial, nasty, worrying, Colloq sticky, Slang hairy: Many thorny questions have vexed us throughout the ages.
THOUGH|8|conj. 1 although, even though, while, in spite of or despite the fact that, notwithstanding that, albeit, granted, granting or conceding that, allowing or admitting that, even if, supposing: Though it is the right size, I hate the colour. --adv. 2 however, nonetheless, nevertheless, yet, but, still, even so, be that as it may, all the same, notwithstanding, for all that: She lost the original; I kept a copy though.
THREAT|4|n. 1 intimidation, menace, commination, warning, peril, risk, danger, Damoclean sword: It is not honesty but the threat of punishment that deters many from crime. 2 omen, presage, portent, foreboding, forewarning, intimation: The villagers lived under a constant threat from the smoking volcano.
THRIFT|7|n. economy, husbandry, care, carefulness, prudence, parsimony, frugality, thriftiness, sparingness, scrimping, skimping; penuriousness, close-fistedness, tight-fistedness, niggardliness, stinginess, miserliness: Only through our thrift were we able to save enough for a new car.
THRILL|2|n. 1 excitement, titillation, frisson, tingle, tingling (sensation), stimulation, Colloq kick, bang, charge, buzz: Victor feels a tremendous thrill when his daughter wins a tennis match. 2 tremor, quiver, quivering, shudder, shuddering, tremble, trembling, flutter, throb, throbbing, tremor, pulsation, vibration: The only warning was a slight thrill in the earth just before the main quake. --v. 3 excite, stimulate, animate, electrify, galvanize, enliven, stir, titillate, touch, strike, move, impassion, arouse, Slang send, give (someone) a kick: They were thrilled to discover that they had won an award.
THRIVE|7|v. succeed, prosper, boom, advance, flourish, grow, bloom, burgeon, develop, wax, increase, fructify, ripen: They thrived in the invigorating mountain air.
THRONG|5|n. 1 horde, crowd, host, assemblage, assembly, gathering, mass, crush, jam, multitude, congregation, press, swarm, herd, flock, bevy, drove: Throngs of people packed the shopping mall on Saturday. --v. 2 crowd (into), fill, pack (into), cram (into), crush (into), jam (into), press (into), swarm (into), herd (into), flock (into or to); assemble (in or at), gather (in or at), mass (in or at), congregate (in or at): Thousands thronged the stadium to watch the tennis matches.
THRUST|4|v. 1 push, shove, drive, force, impel, ram, jam, butt, propel, prod, urge, press; shoulder, jostle, elbow: A stranger thrust this note into my hand. She thrust her way through the crowd. 2 stab, plunge, stick, jab, poke; lunge: He thrust the dagger into the man's back. She thrust at me with an ice pick. 3 Usually, thrust upon. press (upon or on), impose (upon or on), force (upon or on), urge (upon or on): They were willing to help, but rather thought the problem had been thrust upon them. --n. 4 shove, push, drive, lunge, poke, prod, stab: He depended on his agility to avoid the thrusts of the rapier. 5 propulsion, force, power, energy: The thrust of the photon engines drives the space ship at nearly the speed of light.
THWART|7|v. 1 frustrate, impede, check, stymie, baffle, stop, foil, stump, hinder, obstruct, balk, block, oppose, negate, nullify, Colloq short-circuit: They have thwarted all our efforts to become friendly. --n. 2 brace, cross-brace; (rowing-)seat, bench: These canoes are fitted with two thwarts.
TICKLE|4|v. titillate, delight, please, gratify, amuse, entertain, divert, captivate, thrill, tickle pink or to death: The show we saw last night really tickled my fancy. She was tickled to receive the flowers.
TIFFIN|4|n. luncheon, lunch, light repast, snack: The new arrivals were to join us for tiffin.
TIGHTS|3|n.pl. US and Canadian and New Zealand panty hose, Australian and US also pantihose: It was much too hot to wear tights.
TIMBER|10|n. 1 trees, forest, woodland: The standing timber has been seriously depleted in Brazil. 2 wood, beams, boards, planks, US and Canadian lumber: The timber for our new house arrived today. 3 material, potential, stuff, character, quality, talent, prospect: Agatha seems to be good management timber.
TIMBRE|10|n. tone (colour or quality), tonality, colour, resonance: Kurt's voice has a rich, full timbre.
TIMELY|11|adj. punctual, prompt, well-timed, propitious, opportune, convenient, favourable, auspicious: We welcomed the timely arrival of our rescuers.
TINKER|10|v. trifle, dabble, meddle, mess (around or about), toy, fool or play (around or about), Brit potter or US putter (about or around), Colloq fiddle or monkey or muck (about or around): Graham has always enjoyed tinkering with engines.
TIRADE|7|n. declamation, harangue, diatribe, philippic, outburst, onslaught, screed, jeremiad, denunciation, stream of abuse, invective: He let loose with such a vituperative tirade that I walked out.
TISSUE|4|n. fabric, network, web, interweaving, combination, chain, series, accumulation, conglomeration, concatenation, pile, mass, pack: Their entire testimony was a tissue of lies.
TITBIT|8|n. delicacy, (dainty) morsel, treat, choice item, bonne bouche, US tidbit, Colloq goody: Sally likes to steal little titbits off my plate. I heard a juicy titbit of gossip this morning.
TITTER|4|v. 1 chuckle, snicker, chortle, giggle; snigger: He told the most awful jokes at which his staff would titter politely. --n. 2 chuckle, snicker, giggle, (suppressed) laughter, chortle, snigger: A titter ran through the audience.
TOILET|6|n. 1 (water) closet, WC, men's (room), ladies' (room), (public) convenience, facility or facilities, washroom, bathroom, lavatory, privy, outhouse, urinal, (in France) pissoir, vespasienne; Nautical head, Chiefly military latrine, Chiefly US rest room, New England necessary, Colloq the Gents, the Ladies('), powder-room, little girls' room, little boys' room, Brit loo, smallest room (in the house), Military ablutions, Slang Brit bog, karzy, US and Canadian john, can, crapper: They excused themselves to go to the toilet. 2 Formal or literary grooming, dressing, making up, Brit toilette: She was still at her toilet when we arrived.
TONGUE|7|n. 1 language, speech; dialect, patois,Creole, idiom, parlance, argot, talk, vernacular, faúon de parler: The people in that area speak a strange tongue. 2 (verbal) expression, utterance, voice, articulation: Michael is reluctant to give tongue to his real feelings. 3 hold (one's) tongue. be or remain or keep silent, keep mum, say nothing or nought, not breathe a word, keep (one's) counsel, not say a word, Slang shut up: Hold your tongue till you are spoken to! 4 slip of the tongue. slip, mistake, gaffe, blunder, faux pas, Freudian slip, Colloq Brit boob: Saying 'bald' when I meant 'bold' was a slip of the tongue. 5 (with (one's)) tongue in (one's) cheek. facetiously, whimsically, ironically, jocularly, jokingly, not seriously, in jest, jestingly, in fun, to be funny, Colloq kiddingly: As he is my older brother, I call him 'Dad' with tongue in cheek, of course.
TOPPLE|4|v. 1 upset, up-end, knock down or over, bring down, fell, capsize, collapse: Scores of buildings were toppled by the tornado. 2 bring or throw down, overthrow, defeat, vanquish, overcome, overturn, unseat, oust: The leaders of the coup succeeded in toppling the government in a week. 3 fall (over or down), drop, collapse, keel over, tumble down: Seven guardsmen toppled over because of the heat on the parade ground.
TORPOR|8|n. sluggishness, sloth, lethargy, apathy, indolence, passivity, slothfulness, dullness, stupefaction, drowsiness, sleepiness, somnolence, inactivity, inertia, inertness, languor, laziness, phlegm, lifelessness, listlessness, idleness, fain÷ance, pococurantism, indifference, unconcern, insouciance: The heat produced a certain torpor in all of us.
TORRID|5|adj. 1 hot, fiery, sultry, stifling, sweltering, broiling, sizzling, roasting, blazing, burning, baking, cooking, boiling, blistering, blistery, scorching, scorched, parched, parching, arid; humid, steamy, steaming, muggy; tropical: It seemed impossible that any creature could survive in such a torrid climate. 2 fervent, fervid, passionate, intense, ardent, inflamed, impassioned, lustful, amorous, erotic, Colloq sexy, hot: The film was noted for its torrid love scenes.
TOTTER|4|v. waver, topple, falter, tremble, teeter, sway, rock, stagger, stumble, wobble, quiver, shake, quake, shiver, dodder: He seemed to totter a bit as he left the pub.
TOUCHY|7|adj. 1 (over-)sensitive, supersensitive, hypersensitive, highly-strung, tense, thin-skinned, crabby, crabbed, testy, irascible, irritable, tetchy, temperamental, grouchy, peevish, querulous, petulant, pettish, splenetic, captious, bad-tempered, short-tempered, hot-tempered, quick-tempered, crusty, cross, curmudgeonly, cantankerous, choleric, dyspeptic, waspish, bearish, snarling, snappish, argumentative, disputatious, contentious, US high-strung, cranky: She is very touchy on the subject of her family. He's always touchy in the morning. 2 critical, touch-and-go, sensitive, ticklish, risky, precarious, hazardous, chancy, unsure, uncertain, close, hairbreadth, dangerous, hair-raising, frightening, terrifying, nerve-racking or nerve-wracking, Jocular parlous, Colloq hairy: There was a touchy moment when the fuel leaked into the astronauts' cabin.
TOUSLE|3|v. dishevel, disorder, ruffle, disarrange, tangle (up), mess (up), rumple, disarray, US muss (up): Her hair was all tousled by the wind.
TRADER|7|n. dealer, merchant, businessman, broker, merchandiser, distributor, seller, salesman, saleswoman, salesperson, vendor, buyer, purchaser, retailer, wholesaler: All sorts of traders can be found in the covered market.
TRAGIC|9|adj. sad, depressing, lamentable, unhappy, funereal, forlorn, melancholy, cheerless, mournful, lachrymose, dolorous, grievous, morose, lugubrious, dismal, piteous, pitiable, pitiful, pathetic(al), appalling, wretched, dreadful, awful, terrible, horrible, deplorable, miserable, distressing, disturbing, upsetting, shocking, unlucky, unfortunate, hapless, ill-fated, inauspicious, star-crossed, ill-omened, ill-starred, calamitous, catastrophic, crushing, disastrous; tragical: It was really tragic that we couldn't get there in time to say goodbye.
TRANCE|8|n. daze, stupor, semi-conscious or half-conscious or hypnotic or cataleptic or dream state, state of semi-consciousness or half-consciousness or catalepsy or suspended animation or stupefaction or abstraction or (complete) absorption or exaltation or rapture or ecstasy; brown study: He walked about all day in a trance, oblivious to what was going on around him.
TRAVEL|9|n. 1 travelling, tourism, touring, globe-trotting: Travel is an enriching experience. Travel by air is the commonest means of long-distance transport. 2 travels. trips, expeditions, journeys, excursions, tours, voyages, touring, treks, trekking, travelling, wanderings, peregrinations, junkets, pilgrimages: In all your travels, have you ever encountered an honest man? --v. 3 journey, go, move, proceed, roam, rove, traverse, tour, take or make a trip or tour or excursion or junket or journey, trek, voyage: As one who has travelled far and wide, what is your favourite country? 4 go, move, socialize, fraternize, associate, Colloq hang around or about: Cordelia and I do not travel in the same circles.
TREATY|9|n. pact, agreement, alliance, concordat, entente, covenant, deal, contract, compact, accord: They entered into a treaty not to violate each other's borders.
TRENDY|10|adj. 1 fashionable, stylish, å la mode, modern, up to date, up to the minute, in vogue, voguish, all the rage, Slang hot, now, with it, groovy, in the groove, in, flash: Sibyl travels with that trendy set from Belgravia. --n. 2 show-off, clothes-horse, coxcomb, exhibitionist, Slang Brit pseud, grandstander: Don't you just hate those trendies down at Cole's wine bar?
TRICKY|7|adj. 1 deceitful, shady, deceptive, shifty, dodgy, artful, guileful, crafty, duplicitous, shrewd, cunning, dishonest, devious, sly, wily, slippery, foxy, double-dealing, cheating: Arthur is a tricky chap and I shouldn't trust him. 2 ticklish, risky, hazardous, sensitive, delicate, touch-and-go, thorny, difficult, awkward, complex, complicated, knotty, uncertain, debatable, Colloq iffy, sticky: It is a tricky decision whether you tell a patient how ill he really is. 3 unfair, unjust, unsportsmanlike, deceptive, Colloq trick: There were some tricky questions in today's exam.
TROPHY|14|n. 1 prize, laurel(s), wreath, cup, award, reward, honour(s), medal, citation, palm, bays; booty, spoils, Colloq gold, silver, silverware: He has won trophies for more boat races than I have participated in. 2 memento, souvenir, token, record, reminder, remembrance, keepsake: That scar is a trophy of a hand-to-hand fight near El Alamein.
TRUANT|6|n. 1 malingerer, runaway, absentee, delinquent, dodger, shirker, idler, loafer, layabout, Slang Brit skiver, Brit military scrimshanker: Truants were warned that their parents would be required to visit the school. --adj. 2 malingering, runaway, absent, absentee, delinquent, shirking, loafing, Slang Brit skiving: The officer brought in three truant boys found fishing at the lake.
TRUISM|8|n. commonplace, platitude, bromide, axiom, clich÷, maxim: You can rely on Vera to utter a truism like, 'It's a nice day', on a warm, sunny day.
TRYING|6|adj. irritating, exasperating, frustrating, annoying, irksome, infuriating, maddening, bothersome, tiresome, vexing, troublesome, worrying, worrisome, distressing, disquieting, upsetting, dispiriting, taxing, demanding, tough, stressful, difficult, tiring, fatiguing: This must be a trying time for you, caring for eight small children.
TTETTE|2|n. 1 (cosy or personal) chat, dialogue, causerie, pillow talk, private talk or word, parley, interview, Colloq confab, US one-on-one: Will we have time for a brief téte-å-téte after dinner? --adv. 2 intimately, privately, in private, face to face, confidentially, secretly, å deux, in secret, Colloq US one-on-one: Could we meet téte-å-téte some time? --adj. 3 intimate, private, intime, cosy: I arranged a little téte-å-téte dinner at my flat.
TUMBLE|5|v. 1 fall (down), pitch, turn end over end or head over heels, roll, drop: Giggling hysterically, we tumbled in a heap on the lawn. 2 drop, toss, dump, jumble: The waiter tumbled several spoonfuls of berries on to my plate. 3 tumble to. understand, apprehend, perceive, comprehend, see the light, Colloq get the signal or message, catch on, Brit twig to, Slang get wise, wise up, dig: I finally tumbled to what she was trying to tell me. --n. 4 fall, slip, stumble, Colloq header, spill: Joshua took a bad tumble on the stairs yesterday.
TUMOUR|8|n. neoplasm, cancer, melanoma, sarcoma, malignancy, carcinoma, growth, lump, swelling, protuberance, excrescence: The doctor found a tumour that he said ought to be removed.
TUMULT|8|n. commotion, disturbance, upset, uproar, riot, disorder, disquiet, insurrection, agitation, bedlam, chaos, brouhaha, fracas, hubbub, stir, pandemonium, hullabaloo, furore or US furor, brawl, Donnybrook, affray, row, mél÷e or melee, turbulence, ferment, ado, turmoil, confusion, rampage, frenzy, rage, excitement, rumpus, Colloq US ruckus: The tumult caused by the football hooligans spread through the city.
TUNNEL|4|n. 1 shaft, subway, (underground) passage(way), underpass; burrow, hole; Channel Tunnel, Colloq Chunnel: The cat got out through this tunnel. --v. 2 burrow, dig, hole, excavate, penetrate, mine: The prisoners tunnelled under the wall and escaped.
TWINGE|6|n. 1 stab, pang, cramp, spasm, pinch, stitch, (sharp) pain, prick, bite, gripe: I get a terrible twinge in my back when I lift anything heavy. 2 pang, pain: I felt a twinge of remorse at leaving.
TYCOON|9|n. mogul, magnate, baron, financier, (multi)millionaire, billionaire, merchant prince, potentate, Colloq big shot, (big-time) operator, wheeler-dealer, big-timer, US big wheel, big cheese: What makes you think that Castenado is an oil tycoon?
TYPIFY|17|v. exemplify, instance, epitomize, personify, represent, characterize, embody, evince, symbolize, suggest: John's views typify the conservative approach.
TYRANT|9|n. dictator, despot, autocrat, martinet, Hitler, bully, oppressor, authoritarian, hard taskmaster, slave-driver, Simon Legree, overlord: It seems that no people or part of the world is immune to tyrants.
UMPIRE|10|n. 1 referee, arbiter, judge, moderator, adjudicator, arbitrator; official; Colloq ref, Australian umpy, US ump: The sides agree to abide by the decision of the umpire. --v. 2 referee, arbitrate, judge, moderate, adjudicate; officiate: When Peter Jones umpires a game, the players know they will get a fair decision.
UNABLE|3|adj. not able, powerless, unfit, unqualified, impotent: The company was unable to give guarantees about continuity of employment.
UNDONE|7|adj. 1 ruined, lost, wrecked, crushed, destroyed, devastated, shattered, brought to ruin, defeated, prostrated, overcome: Brian was completely undone by that gold-digging heart-breaker he met in Caracas. If the headmaster finds out about the glue, we are undone! 2 open, loose, loosened, untied, unfastened, detached, unhooked, unlaced, unzipped, unsnapped, unbuttoned, unpinned, unstuck: Your shoelaces are undone. The knot came undone.
UNDULY|10|adv. 1 disproportionately, excessively, overly, unnecessarily, inordinately, unreasonably, irrationally, unjustifiably, improperly, inappropriately: He claimed that he was being unduly harassed by the police. 2 immoderately, lavishly, profusely, extravagantly: Don't be unduly generous in tipping our waiter - he did spill the soup in your lap.
UNFOLD|10|v. 1 open (out or up), spread (out), unfurl, stretch out, expand, uncoil, unwind, straighten out: Emerging from the pupa, it unfolds its wings and becomes a beautiful butterfly. 2 develop, evolve, happen, take place, occur, be divulged, be disclosed or revealed: What will unfold next in our little drama?
UNIQUE|4|adj. 1 single, lone, (one and) only, solitary, one of a kind, sui generis: Natural forces conspired to create this unique situation. 2 unequalled, unparalleled, unrivalled, incomparable, inimitable, peerless, unmatched, unsurpassed, unexcelled, second to none: Stimble's genius is unique in the annals of proctology.
UNISON|6|n. in unison (with). in harmony, together, corresponding exactly, in (perfect) accord, consonant, harmonious: Why is his singing never in unison with ours? We all responded in unison with a rousing 'No!'
UNITED|7|adj. 1 unified, common, mutual, combined, merged, coalesced, pooled, shared, collective, joint, amalgamated, connected: The new law will serve our united interests. 2 joint, cooperative, common, communal, collaborative, synergetic or synergistic, collective, concerted, coordinated, allied; partnership: We must make a united effort if we are to survive. 3 agreed, unanimous, in agreement, of one mind, of like mind or opinion, like-minded, in accord, in harmony, harmonious: We are united in our assessment of last night's performance.
UNKIND|11|adj. inconsiderate, unthoughtful, thoughtless, unfeeling, unconcerned, insensitive, unkindly, unsympathetic, uncharitable, unchristian, uncaring, hard-hearted, heartless, flinty, hard, rigid, callous, tough, inflexible, unyielding, unbending, severe, harsh, stern, cruel, mean, inhuman: It was very unkind of you to refuse the beggar.
UNLIKE|10|adj. 1 different (from), dissimilar (to), unalike, distinct (from), opposite (from or to), contrasting or contrastive (with or to), separate (from), divergent (from), incompatible (with), distinguishable (from), far apart (from), far (from), distant (from), ill-matched (with), unequal (to), unequivalent (to): His notions of right and wrong are unlike those of other people. Although they're brothers, they look quite unlike each other. 2 atypical, uncharacteristic, untypical: It is unlike you to complain. --prep. 3 different from, differing from, in contradistinction to, in contrast with or to, dissimilar to, distinct from, opposite from or to, contrasting with or to, divergent from, incompatible with, distinguishable from, ill-matched with, unequal to, unequivalent to: Unlike you, I've been there and know what it's like.
UNLOAD|7|v. empty, dump, unpack, offload, discharge; disburden, unburden: We unloaded the cargo at Sulawesi. The camels must be unloaded every night.
UNREAL|6|adj. 1 imaginary, fantastic, chimeric(al), fanciful, fancied, illusory, make-believe, phantasmagoric(al), phantasmal, spectral, figmental, unrealistic, non-existent: Fear made the whole scene unreal to Martha. 2 theoretical, hypothetical, mythical, imaginary, made-up, fictitious, make-believe, fanciful: Although the example is unreal, it will serve its purpose in my argument. 3 artificial, synthetic, synthesized, mock, false, fake(d), counterfeit, fraudulent, dummy, spurious, falsified, pretend(ed), sham, pseudo, make-believe: The countryside looked a little unreal, too luxuriant and too sculptured.
UNRULY|9|adj. unmanageable, ungovernable, uncontrollable, undisciplined, unregulated, lawless, disobedient, insubordinate, rebellious, mutinous, fractious, refractory, contumacious, obstreperous, wilful, headstrong, stubborn, recalcitrant, intractable, defiant, uncooperative, wayward, disorderly, turbulent, riotous, tumultuous, violent, stormy, tempestuous: She had no idea of how to handle a capricious and unruly teenager. The first reading of the bill led to an unruly session of Parliament.
UNSUNG|7|adj. uncelebrated, unrecognized, unglorified, unexalted, unpraised, unhonoured, unnoticed, disregarded, unknown, anonymous, unidentified, nameless, obscure, insignificant, inconspicuous: I have no wish to add to the long list of unsung authors of the twentieth century.
UNTIDY|10|adj. disorderly, messy, dishevelled, unkempt, slovenly, slatternly, bedraggled, rumpled, frowzy, sloppy, dirty; littered, cluttered, chaotic, helter-skelter, jumbled, Archaic draggle-tailed, Colloq US mussy, mussed-up: You should never go to the door looking so untidy. Ken's papers are always so untidy.
UNTOLD|7|adj. 1 countless, uncounted, uncountable, unnumbered, numberless, innumerable, myriad, incalculable; immeasurable, measureless, unlimited: Untold millions are lost through tax fraud each year. 2 unrecounted, unnarrated, undescribed, unpublished, unrevealed, undisclosed, undivulged, unreported, private, hidden, secret: How many untold stories are there in the naked city? 3 inexpressible, unutterable, indescribable, unimaginable, inconceivable, unthinkable, unspeakable: The untold agony that man went through because of his family's illnesses!
UNTRUE|6|adj. 1 unfaithful, faithless, disloyal, fickle, capricious, undependable, unreliable, dishonourable, untrustworthy, false, hypocritical, dishonest, insincere, two-faced, duplicitous, devious, deceitful, treacherous, perfidious: Only when I saw her with Henry did I realize that Pauline had been untrue to me. 2 wrong, false, inaccurate, incorrect, erroneous, misleading, mistaken, distorted: What you said about Pauline was simply untrue. 3 inexact, non-standard, substandard, imprecise, imperfect: How unfortunate for legend had William Tell's aim been untrue!
UNUSED|7|adj. 1 (brand) new, untouched, pristine, original, intact, fresh, firsthand: He sold me his unused computer for half what it cost. 2 disused, abandoned, derelict, neglected, given up: We hid in an old unused factory building. 3 unconsumed, leftover, remaining, left: If dissatisfied with this product, return the unused portion for a full refund. 4 unused to. unaccustomed to, unfamiliar with, inexperienced in or at, amateurish at, unpractised in or at, uninitiated in: I am quite unused to doing that sort of thing.
UNVEIL|9|v. reveal, expose, uncover, lay bare or open, bare, bring to light: They will unveil a rival bid at tomorrow's meeting. Only after William died did Cynthia unveil the truth about his double life.
UNWARY|12|adj. heedless, careless, hasty, incautious, unguarded, imprudent, rash, foolhardy, reckless, thoughtless, indiscreet, unthinking, mindless, unwise: Many perils await the unwary traveller. It was unwary of you not to lock the doors and windows.
UPBEAT|10|adj. positive, optimistic, sanguine, favourable, cheerful, encouraging, heartening, buoyant, light-hearted: Christopher has a very upbeat attitude towards life despite his age.
UPHOLD|12|v. support, maintain, sustain, preserve, hold up, defend, protect, advocate, promote, espouse, embrace, endorse, back, champion, stand by: All demagogues claim to uphold democratic principles.
UPKEEP|12|n. 1 maintenance, repair, support, sustenance, preservation, conservation, subsistence, running, operation: The upkeep of the infrastructure came to ten per cent of the annual budget last year. 2 (operating) costs, (running) expenses, outlay, expenditure, Brit overheads, oncosts, US overhead: Have you included upkeep in the annual expenses?
UPPISH|2|adj. affected, putting on airs, snobbish, conceited, overweening, self-important, Colloq uppity, snooty, high and mighty, hoity-toity, highfalutin or hifalutin, stuck-up, on (one's) high horse, Slang snotty, Brit toffee-nosed: Even if she is in charge she doesn't have to be so uppish.
UPROAR|8|n. clamour, hubbub, disturbance, commotion, hullabaloo, brouhaha, din, racket, pandemonium, tumult, turmoil, pother, outcry, outburst, bedlam, agitation, frenzy, broil, rumpus, fuss; affray, fracas, brawl; Colloq hoo-ha, to-do, US hoop-la, Brit kerfuffle or carfuffle or kurfuffle: The announcement of the new taxes caused a nation-wide uproar.
UPROOT|6|v. 1 transfer, transplant, move, displace; exile, banish: Finney has been uprooted five times in his career with the firm. 2 deracinate, extirpate, root out, dig out, pluck out, tear out; destroy, demolish, ruin, eradicate, annihilate, kill, ruin, devastate, ravage: Thousands of trees were uprooted by the hurricane.
UPTAKE|12|n. comprehension, understanding, apprehension, grasp, perception, insight, perspicaciousness, perspicacity, perceptiveness, sensitivity: Billie was very quick on the uptake, and knew immediately what the man was after.
URGENT|7|adj. 1 immediate, instant, imperative, pressing, compelling, vital, life-and-death or life-or-death, important, serious, necessary, exigent, rush, emergency, pressing, high-priority: There was an urgent need to do something at once, so she screamed. 2 supplicative, begging, solicitous, earnest, importunate, insistent, loud, clamorous, active, energetic, pertinacious, tenacious, forceful, firm: Both parties were urgent in pressing for tax reform.
USEFUL|9|adj. utilitarian, functional, serviceable, practical, usable, of use, beneficial, salutary, advantageous, expedient, profitable, valuable, gainful, helpful, fruitful, productive, effective, worthwhile: Does this knob serve any useful purpose? We had some very useful conversations with the bank manager.
UTOPIA|8|n. paradise, heaven, seventh heaven, (Garden of) Eden, bliss, cloud-cuckoo-land, Nephelococcygia, never-never land, Shangri-La, Cockaigne or Cockayne, heaven on earth, perfection: He dreams about a Utopia where everyone is rich and there are no taxes.
VACANT|11|adj. 1 empty, void, hollow, unoccupied, untenanted, uninhabited, abandoned, deserted: The house remained vacant all summer. 2 blank, expressionless, deadpan, empty, vacuous, dull, absent-minded, inane, uncomprehending, fatuous, unaware: After the accident, she would just sit, for hours on end, with a vacant look on her face. 3 unoccupied, free, unused, unutilized, spare, extra, idle, unfilled, unengaged, unspoken for: The doctor has a vacant hour tomorrow at ten and could see you then.
VACATE|11|v. 1 leave, depart (from), withdraw from, quit, evacuate, get or go out of; desert, abandon: In a fire drill, employees must vacate the building in five minutes. 2 give up, relinquish, sacrifice, renounce, let go, resign, abdicate, cede, give up right or claim to, abandon: We vacated all claims to my aunt's property. 3 annul, declare null and void, nullify, void, repudiate, override, overrule, rescind, revoke, recall, quash, set aside, invalidate: The judge vacated the defendant's plea of diminished capacity.
VALLEY|10|n. glen, dale, dell, vale, dingle, hollow, coomb or coombe or combe or comb, No. Brit and Welsh cirque or corrie or cwm, Scots strath: Oh, to stroll once again the cool valleys and the heathered hills of home!
VANITY|12|n. 1 conceit, conceitedness, egotism, narcissism, arrogance, cockiness, self-importance, vainglory, haughtiness, pride, self-admiration, self-worship, Colloq swell-headedness, big-headedness: It is disgraceful what some people do to satisfy their vanity. 2 vainness, emptiness, hollowness, worthlessness, futility, unreality, bootlessness, pointlessness, uselessness, folly, vapidity, silliness, vacuousness, vacuity, foolishness, fatuity, frivolousness: The vanity of trying to complete the book in a year must be obvious by now.
VAPOUR|11|n. 1 mist, fog, steam, cloud, smoke, smog, exhalation: There arose from the bog a suffocating, miasmic vapour. 2 the vapours. morbidity, hypochondria, hysteria, nervousness, depression, rheuminess, Archaic distemper, Colloq the pip: Charlotte suffered an attack of the vapours and retired to her room.
VASTLY|12|adv. immensely, greatly, hugely, enormously, considerably, substantially, (almost) entirely, infinitely, exceedingly, extremely, very much, Colloq worlds: Their new house was vastly different from the way I had pictured it. Katy looks vastly better since she lost two stone.
VEILED|10|adj. concealed, hidden, masked, obscure, unrevealed, covert, disguised, secret, sub rosa, subtle: There seemed to be a veiled threat in the way he said goodbye.
VENEER|7|n. gloss, faúade, finish, pretence, (false) front, (outward) show or display, appearance, mask, guise, aspect, superficies: Beneath that veneer of elegance and refinement lie the heart and soul of a monstrous criminal.
VENIAL|9|adj. forgivable, excusable, pardonable, tolerable, tolerated, minor, petty, insignificant, unimportant, remittable or remissible: That hypocrite considers even his most heinous crimes to be venial.
VERBAL|11|adj. 1 spoken, oral, vocal, said, uttered, expressed, enunciated, articulated, colloquial, conversational, viva voce, word-of-mouth, unwritten: We had a verbal agreement that you would behave yourself. 2 word-for-word, verbatim, literal: We have an accurate verbal transcript of the proceedings. 3 word, lexical, vocabulary: She did very well on the verbal parts of the examination but poorly on the mathematics.
VERIFY|15|v. affirm, confirm, testify to, attest (to), bear witness to, vouch for, corroborate, support, substantiate, clinch or clench, prove, demonstrate, show, bear out, authenticate, validate, certify, guarantee, back up, warrant: Can you verify the accuracy of his testimony?
VERSED|10|adj. Usually, well-versed in. well-read or (well-)informed in or (well-)trained or (well-)grounded or (well-)schooled or (well-)educated or (well-)tutored or learned or cultured or lettered or cultivated or literate or competent or accomplished or skilled in, (well) posted on, knowledgeable in or about, proficient or experienced or practised or expert or good in or at, conversant or familiar or (well-)acquainted with: The applicant appears to be sufficiently well-versed in several subjects to be qualified to teach them.
VERTEX|16|n. top, tip, extremity, zenith, meridian, apogee, peak, apex, acme, summit, pinnacle, crest, crown, cap, height(s): The building is surmounted by a pyramidal dome at the vertex of which is a statue of Osiris.
VESSEL|7|n. 1 container, receptacle, utensil, holder: Food was stored in vessels neatly arrayed around the sarcophagus. 2 craft, boat, ship, ark, Literary barque or US also bark: The vessel docked gently at the airlock of the space station.
VIABLE|6|adj. sustainable, supportable, sensible, reasonable, practical, practicable, applicable, workable, feasible, possible: We have three days to come up with a viable plan for continuing the research project.
VICTIM|13|n. 1 sufferer, martyr, casualty, scapegoat, sacrificial lamb, injured party: It is a pity that you had to be the victim of her greed. 2 dupe, gull, fool, butt, fair game, Colloq chump, fall guy, Slang sucker, sap, Chiefly US and Canadian patsy, US schnook, schlemiel or schlemihl or shlemiel: She was an easy victim for any confidence man.
VICTOR|11|n. winner, champion, conqueror, prizewinner: They came home unchallenged victors by an overwhelming 11 point margin.
VIGOUR|10|n. vitality, resilience, strength, power, energy, forcefulness, force, stamina, endurance, mettle, mettlesomeness, pith, dynamism, spirit, liveliness, animation, verve, vivacity, exuberance, brio, briskness, zest, zealousness, enthusiasm, gusto, eagerness, Colloq spunk, pep, pizazz, vim, oomph, zing, get-up-and-go: When attacked, they defended themselves with extraordinary vigour.
VILIFY|15|v. depreciate, devalue, deprecate, debase, disparage, denigrate, diminish, traduce, defame, speak ill of, revile, slander, libel, abuse, defile, sully, smear, tarnish, malign, calumniate, asperse, run down, decry, Rare vilipend, Colloq US bad-mouth: His political and religious views became notorious and were often vilified.
VIRTUE|9|n. 1 morality, high-mindedness, honour, goodness, justness, righteousness, fairness, integrity, right-mindedness, honesty, probity, uprightness, rectitude, decency, worth, worthiness, nobility, character, respectability: You will find the Billingses to be people of unassailable virtue. 2 virginity, chastity, chasteness, honour, innocence, purity: As Healey had six daughters, he was kept quite busy protecting their virtue. 3 quality, credit, strength, good point, asset: Opposing the seven deadly sins are the three theological virtues, faith, hope, and charity, and the four cardinal virtues, fortitude, justice, prudence, and temperance. 4 by virtue of. by dint of, owing to, thanks to, by reason of, because of, on account of: Gerry was a part owner by virtue of his investment in the company.
VISION|9|n. 1 eyesight, perception, sight: The optician said there is nothing wrong with MacKenzie's vision. 2 far-sightedness, understanding, imagination, foresight, foresightedness, insight: MacKenzie has brought great vision to this scheme for developing the Australian outback. 3 view, perspective, perception, envisioning, envisaging, dream, idea, plan, scheme: MacKenzie's vision of making the desert bloom seemed impossibly remote. 4 phantom, apparition, chimera, delusion, hallucination, mirage, spectre, shade, eidolon, revenant, phantasm, materialization, illusion, ghost, wraith: A vision appeared to MacKenzie as he slept, telling him that her name was Alice Springs. 5 sight for sore eyes, (welcome) sight, dream, epitome: To MacKenzie Alice was a vision of great beauty, and he proposed marriage.
VOLLEY|10|n. 1 salvo, bombardment, barrage, cannonade, fusillade, discharge, hail, shower: A volley of shot struck the tower, which collapsed. 2 outpouring, torrent, flood, deluge, inundation, burst, storm, outbreak: The cracks of the muleteer's whip were accompanied by a volley of abuse. 3 give and take, to-and-fro, interaction, reciprocity, exchange, volleying, crossfire, badinage, bantering: Samuel enjoyed the volley of haggling that accompanied every sale.
VOLUME|11|n. 1 amount, quantity, supply, mass, bulk, abundance, sum total, aggregate: The volume of ore from the mine created a pile hundreds of feet high. Her volume of output is greater than yours and mine together. 2 capacity, size, measure: The volume of this bottle is not more than a litre. 3 loudness: Turn down the volume on that ghetto-blaster. 4 book, tome: I bought a twenty-volume set of Dickens.
VULGAR|10|adj. 1 indelicate, boorish, uncultured, uncultivated, low, unrefined, common, plebeian, inelegant, unladylike, ungentlemanly, gauche, uncouth, coarse, tasteless, ostentatious, ignoble, low-class, Colloq flash: The boss's wife was known for her vulgar behaviour at the dinner table. 2 tasteless, indelicate, indecent, rude, crude, naughty, dirty, improper, off colour, risqu÷, ribald, blue, indecorous, nasty, offensive, gross, lustful, obscene, lewd, lascivious, licentious, smutty, salacious, scatological, filthy, pornographic, Slang US raunchy: He made a lot of money through publishing vulgar magazines and videos. 3 popular, vernacular, ordinary, everyday, general, homespun, commonplace, household, average: Dictionaries should record the vulgar language as well as the literary.
WADDLE|7|v. toddle, shuffle, wobble or wabble, totter, paddle, pad, waggle, duck-walk, Brit dialect wamble: He waddled down the road, a shopping-bag on each arm.
WAFFLE|7|v. 1 Often, waffle on. carry on, jabber (on), prattle (on), prate, blather (on or away), Colloq run on, Brit witter (on), natter (on), rabbit on, Slang run off at the mouth: He kept waffling on about his new computer and, frankly, I wasn't listening. 2 equivocate, hedge, quibble, shuffle, tergiversate, hem and haw, prevaricate, Brit beat about the bush, US beat around the bush, Colloq fudge: I wish he would stop waffling and say what he means. --n. 3 talk, palaver, verbiage, prattle, twaddle, blather, prolixity, wordiness, jabber, jibber-jabber, Colloq hot air: All I got was a lot of waffle when I asked for the best interest rate on a loan.
WAIVER|12|n. renunciation, relinquishment, forgoing, ceding, cession, resignation, surrender, abandonment, setting or putting aside, deferral, remission, postponement: Her waiver of all rights to the inheritance was duly recorded.
WALLET|7|n. purse, pocketbook, Brit notecase, US billfold: An anonymous good Samaritan found my wallet and sent it to me intact, with all the money in it.
WALLOW|10|v. 1 roll or loll about or around, welter, writhe, tumble, splash or plash: He enjoys watching the pigs wallowing in the mud. 2 Usually, wallow in. luxuriate in, bask in, revel in, glory in, indulge (oneself) in, give (oneself) up to, succumb to, take to, appreciate, fancy, enjoy, like, love, savour, Slang get a kick or a bang or a boot from or out of: Now that Gabriel is a big rock star, he simply wallows in all the attention he is getting. 3 stumble, stagger, lurch, flounder, teeter, totter, falter, pitch: Without its engines, the ship was lifted skyward by a wave one moment only to wallow in a trough the next.
WANDER|10|v. 1 walk, go, roam, rove, range, stray, ramble, stroll, saunter, meander, drift, cruise, prowl, Colloq mosey: We wandered about the village square, chatting and window-shopping. 2 wind, meander, zigzag, turn this way and that: A trout stream wanders past our house. 3 digress, go off, become absent-minded, go wool-gathering, lose concentration or focus: My mind wandered as the speaker droned on. 4 deviate, digress, turn, divagate, stray, drift, depart, go off at a tangent, lose (one's) train of thought, lapse: The speaker tended to wander occasionally.
WANGLE|10|v. scheme, plot, work out, contrive, manoeuvre, engineer, manage, manipulate, machinate, Colloq fix, fiddle, work, pull off, finagle, swing: I hear that you were able to wangle an audience with the pope.
WANTON|9|adj. 1 immoral, dissolute, profligate, dissipated, depraved, loose, promiscuous, lustful, licentious, lecherous, wild, libidinous, lewd, lascivious, unchaste: She is a wanton hussy who is no better than she ought to be. 2 abandoned, unrestrained, undisciplined, ungoverned, ungovernable, unmanageable, outrageous, immoderate, intemperate, untempered: It is not the boy's fault, it is the wanton company he keeps. 3 reckless, rash, uncaring, lavish, extravagant, wilful, heedless, irresponsible, careless: This situation arises from the parents' wanton disregard for their children's moral training. 4 wicked, evil, malevolent, malicious, merciless, inhumane, vicious, cruel, violent, unjustified, unprovoked, uncalled-for, purposeless, motiveless, unjustifiable, arbitrary, gratuitous: We were subject to wanton attacks by the hill people. --n. 5 vamp, strumpet, whore, harlot, loose woman, prostitute, voluptuary, slut, trollop, Jezebel, Colloq tart, Slang hooker, working girl, call-girl: Who invited that wanton, with her tight-fitting, shamelessly low-cut dress?
WARMTH|9|n. 1 heat: We basked in the welcome warmth of the sun. 2 cordiality, heartiness, friendliness, geniality, amiableness, kindliness, tenderness, affability, love: Mother thrives on the warmth of a family environment and should not be put in a nursing home. 3 ardour, effusiveness, enthusiasm, zeal, excitedness, fervour, vehemence, vigour, ebullience, passion: I was taken aback by the warmth of the stranger's greeting. The resolution was debated with considerable warmth. 4 irritation, annoyance, pique: The warmth of his reaction to the accusation is understandable.
WAYLAY|15|v. 1 ambush, lie in wait for, await, intercept, pounce upon or on, swoop down on or upon, accost: You'll have to waylay him on his way to lunch if you want to speak to him. 2 attack, mug, seize, assault, accost, set upon: He was waylaid by a band of thieves and stripped of his belongings.
WAYOUT|12|adj. 1 bizarre, mad, weird, crazy, strange, odd, peculiar, freakish, freaky, eccentric, queer, abnormal, offbeat, outrageous, wild, exotic, esoteric, Colloq kinky, Slang kooky, off-the-wall, far-out, screwy, nutty, US flaky, screwball: The police did not take kindly to the boys' way-out behaviour after the party. 2 avant-garde, advanced, original, innovative, unorthodox, unconventional, experimental, precedent-setting, progressive, exploratory, ground-breaking, Slang far-out: Spencer thinks that the way-out art of the 1960s will have great value one day.
WEAKEN|13|v. 1 debilitate, enfeeble, enervate, emasculate, mitigate, moderate, dilute, deplete, diminish, lessen, depress, lower, reduce, sap, undermine, exhaust, impoverish: The continuous torture helped to weaken Errol's resolve. 2 fade, dwindle, tire, droop, sag, fail, give way, crumble, flag: My determination weakened when I saw what had happened to the children. 3 give in, relent, acquiesce, give way, yield, accede, consent, agree, assent, soften, bend, ease up, let up, ease off, relax: If you ask very politely, she might weaken and allow you to go out and play. 4 water (down), dilute, thin (out): Adding the water so weakened the soup that it tasted like dishwater.
WEDDED|8|adj. Usually, wedded to. intimately or obstinately attached or connected (to), enamoured (of): He has always been wedded to the notion of living alone on an island.
WEIGHT|6|n. 1 heaviness, avoirdupois, mass, tonnage, Dialect heft: They sell peaches by weight but melons are individually priced. The weight of these books must be enormous. 2 burden, load, millstone, onus, pressure, strain, albatross, cross: He has to support the weight of the entire family's expenses. 3 influence, authority, power, substance, force, moment, importance, consequence, impact, persuasiveness, value, worth, Colloq clout: Clyde brought down his full weight in favour of the liberal candidate. Clyde's opinion carries little weight with me. He must stop throwing his weight around. 4 mass, majority, preponderance or preponderancy, bulk, superiority: The weight of the voters is in favour of reducing taxes. The weight of the evidence is against us. --v. 5 load, charge, ballast: The policemen's truncheons are weighted with lead. 6 arrange, manipulate, bias, incline, slant, Colloq rig: The statistics are weighted so as to make the advertiser's product look superior.
WEIRDO|10|n. eccentric, madman, madwoman, lunatic, psychotic, Colloq crazy, weirdie, nutcase, oddball, queer fish, crank, Slang freak, loony, psycho, Brit nutter, US screwball, nut, kook: Why belong to a club whose members are weirdos who refuse to talk to one another?
WELTER|9|n. 1 mass, mess, jumble, tangle, confusion, mishmash, muddle, clutter, Brit hotchpotch or US also hodgepodge: Her assignment was to sort out a welter of discarded clothing for the poor. My mind was assailed by a welter of disorganized images. --v. 2 be sunk or involved in, flounder, be bogged down in, be entangled or ensnarled in: Till I found a new secretary, I would have to continue weltering in a sea of correspondence and unfiled papers.
WHISKY|11|n. whiskey, alcohol, spirits, John Barleycorn, usquebaugh, Scotch, home-brew, mother's ruin (= 'gin'), Scots barley-bree, Brit Scotch, US rye, bourbon, white lightning, white mule, moonshine, Colloq booze, hooch, rot-gut, US corn, fire-water, Slang US Sneaky Pete, smoke: Peter is a welcome guest who always remembers to bring a bottle of whisky.
WHOLLY|5|adv. 1 altogether, entirely, absolutely, quite, totally, thoroughly, completely, in toto, fully, in all respects, in every way, all in all, utterly, unqualifiedly, every inch, 100%; lock, stock, and barrel; root and branch; backwards and forwards; from the ground up; Colloq bag and baggage; hook, line, and sinker; to the nth degree; (the) whole hog, US up one side and down the other: We are wholly on your side in this matter. The company has been wholly reorganized. 2 only, exclusively, solely, unexceptionally, categorically, unequivocally, unambiguously, explicitly: The success or failure of the plan depends wholly on you.
WICKED|8|adj. 1 evil, bad, immoral, amoral, unprincipled, sinful, impious, irreligious, blasphemous, profane, sacrilegious, ungodly, godless, diabolic(al), satanic, Mephistophelian, demonic, demoniac(al), hellish, infernal, accursed, damnable, fiendish, ghoulish: How wicked must one be to murder one's own child? She has done many wicked things, but this was the worst. 2 depraved, dissolute, villainous, black-hearted, iniquitous, horrible, horrid, hideous, heinous, beastly, base, low, vile, debased, degenerate, perverse, perverted, corrupt, foul, offensive, abominable, disgraceful, shameful, dreadful, awful, gross, gruesome, grim, appalling, grisly, loathsome, lawless, unrepentant, unregenerate, incorrigible, criminal, felonious, rascally, knavish, terrible, egregious, execrable: The Deluge was regarded as divine vengeance on a wicked world. He was a wicked man, in league with the devil himself. 3 dirty, pornographic, filthy, erotic, obscene, lewd, offensive, indecent, prurient, smutty, rude, taboo, blue, coarse, bawdy, vulgar, salacious, licentious, nasty, X-rated, Colloq US raunchy: The townspeople took the wicked books and burnt them all. 4 vicious, beastly, savage, nasty, bad, violent, mean, cruel: Graham has a wicked temper. The boys were subjected to the most wicked treatment. 5 naughty, mischievous, impish, sly, devilish, rascally, roguish, scampish, puckish; vexatious, exasperating, annoying, irritating, irksome, trying, galling, bothersome: What trouble have those wicked children got themselves into now? It is wicked of you to make pig noises every time I mention Bertha. 6 foul, offensive, pernicious, baleful, mephitic, disgusting, revolting, sickening, repulsive, repellent, nauseous, repugnant, rotten, pestilential, noxious: That liniment the doctor prescribed has a wicked odour. 7 expert, ingenious, superior, superb, superlative, outstanding, masterful, masterly, skilful, deft, adept: That chap Gough plays a wicked game of tennis.
WIDELY|13|adv. 1 extensively, thoroughly, universally, everywhere, generally, by many: In the days when it was widely believed that the earth was flat, perhaps it was. 2 to a large or a great extent, greatly, largely, very much, extremely, considerably, substantially: Opinions differ widely regarding the origin of the universe.
WILFUL|12|adj. 1 intentional, deliberate, voluntary, conscious, intended, purposeful, premeditated, US willful: The jury decided that such a wilful act of vandalism must be punished. She is accused of wilful neglect of her children. 2 stubborn, headstrong, pigheaded, obstinate, mulish, inflexible, adamant, obdurate, intransigent, unyielding, self-willed, ungovernable, recalcitrant, unruly, immovable, intractable, dogged, determined, refractory, uncompromising, wayward, perverse, contrary: Jim is far too wilful, and tends to have a tantrum if he fails to get his own way.
WINNER|7|n. victor, champion, prizewinner, title-holder, conqueror, conquering hero, Colloq champ: The winner will receive a new car.
WINTRY|12|adj. 1 hiemal, brumal, hibernal; icy, snowy, freezing, frozen, frosty, cold, frigid, bitter (cold), chilly, chilling, piercing, cutting, glacial, Siberian, arctic, hyperborean: It was cold and the sky was clear and wintry with premonitions of frost. 2 cold, frigid, chilly, cool, chilling, glacial: She got a very wintry reception from Dan's parents, who disliked the idea of their living together. 3 forbidding, bleak, dismal, cheerless, dreary, harsh, unfriendly, ugly, menacing, ominous, threatening, dark: His comment about her age evoked only a wintry look from Margot.
WISDOM|12|n. 1 sagacity, sageness, judgement, discernment, reason, prudence, judiciousness, (common) sense, insight, penetration, sapience, understanding, rationality, clear-sightedness, clear-headedness, perspicacity, perspicuity, percipience, perception, perceptiveness, intelligence, acuteness, acumen, astuteness, sharpness, shrewdness, long-headedness: At least she had the wisdom not to shoot the intruder. Allen's wisdom stems from long experience in such matters. 2 knowledge, learning, erudition, lore, scholarship, enlightenment: The wisdom of the ages is locked away in these books.
WONDER|10|n. 1 marvel, prodigy, phenomenon, spectacle, rarity, sight, curiosity, miracle, Slang knockout, stunner, mind-blower, mind-boggler, trip: Surely, the wheel must rank high among the wonders of technology. And still he gazed, and still the wonder grew, / That one small head could carry all he knew. 2 awe, astonishment, admiration, amazement, wonderment, surprise, stupefaction, fascination: Facsimile transmission, which used to excite so much wonder, is now used in offices all over the world. --v. 3 ponder, muse, meditate, think, theorize, conjecture, puzzle, query, question, inquire, be inquisitive, be curious, ask oneself, speculate, cudgel (one's) brains: I wondered if I would be invited to the dance. Have you ever wondered what makes the world go round? 4 marvel (at), goggle, gawk, gape, stare, be awed, be thunderstruck, be amazed, be astonished: We wondered at the death-defying skills of the trapeze artistes. 5 wonder about. question or doubt the sanity or reason or reasonableness of: I wondered about Tammy after that streaking episode.
WOODED|9|adj. sylvan, forested, bosky, tree-covered, woody, timbered: We rested and had our lunch in the coolness of a wooded glen.
WOODEN|8|adj. 1 wood, woody, ligneous, xyloid: The wooden cabinet for the kitchen is almost finished. 2 stiff, rigid, artificial, clumsy, stilted, unnatural, awkward, ungainly, spiritless, unanimated, dead, lifeless, dry, passionless, unimpassioned, impassive, vacant, empty, colourless, expressionless, deadpan: The understudy gave a wooden performance as Uncle Vanya. 3 unintelligent, block-headed, stupid, dull, insensitive, slow-witted, dull-witted, obtuse, oafish, doltish, tiny-minded, dim-witted, dunderpated, Colloq thick, wooden-headed, knuckle-headed: Clancy has some pretty wooden ideas about how to run a business.
WOOLLY|8|adj. 1 fleecy, woollen, wool-bearing, laniferous, lanate or lanose, lanuginose or lanuginous, downy, fuzzy, shaggy, flocculent or floccose, flocky: He was wearing a woolly hat. After two days one test tube contained a woolly precipitate. 2 hazy, fuzzy, unclear, obscure(d), foggy, indistinct, confused, vague, cloudy, clouded, nebulous, ill-defined: My recollection of the event is a bit woolly after all these years.
WORKER|13|n. labourer, working man or woman, workman, hand, employee, artisan, craftsman, tradesman, white-collar worker, blue-collar worker, proletarian, breadwinner, wage-earner: It seems unlikely that the workers would strike for longer hours and less pay.
WORSEN|9|v. 1 increase, exacerbate, heighten, intensify, aggravate: The recent rains have worsened the drainage problem. 2 weaken, deteriorate, decline, degenerate, decay, slip, sink, slide, fail, disintegrate, take a turn for the worse, get worse, go from bad to worse, Colloq go downhill: Her condition continues to worsen.
WORTHY|10|adj. 1 worthwhile, deserving, meriting, meritorious, praiseworthy, good, estimable, qualified, creditable: He is a worthy recipient of the honour. 2 See worthwhile, 2, above. --n. 3 dignitary, personage, notable, eminence, luminary: The dinner was attended by all the local worthies.
WRENCH|2|v. 1 yank, twist, jerk, force, pull, tug, tear, wring, rip, wrest: The gun was wrenched from my grasp, breaking my finger. 2 strain, sprain, twist, overstrain: After she wrenched her ankle on the ladder, Mary couldn't walk for a week. 3 extract, wrest, wring, force, pry, draw: The only way they could wrench the information from Michael was by torturing him. --n. 4 yank, twist, jerk, pull, tug, rip: One wrench at the doorknob and it came off in my hand. 5 pang, pain, agony, torture, blow, ache, throe, anguish, sadness, grief, heartbreak: The severest wrench at my heartstrings came when we had to part. 6 Brit spanner, shifting spanner, adjustable spanner, US monkey wrench: We need metric wrenches to work on your car.
WRETCH|2|n. 1 scoundrel, blackguard, worm, villain, cur, beast, dog, swine, rogue, good-for-nothing, knave, varlet, scallywag or scalawag, rascal, rapscallion, Archaic caitiff, whoreson, Colloq rat, stinker, louse, creep, Slang bastard, Brit rotter, bounder, blighter, US bum: That wretch not only stole my wife but asked me for money to support her! 2 unfortunate, poor fellow or chap, miserable creature, poor devil, pilgarlic, Slang poor bastard or son of a bitch, Brit poor bugger or sod, US sad sack: The poor wretch cannot keep a job and lives off others' charity.
WRITER|4|n. author, novelist, litt÷rateur, essayist, man of letters, scribe, scribbler, wordsmith, freelancer, penny-a-liner, hack, Grub Streeter, journalist, newsman, reporter, correspondent, member of the fourth estate, (gossip) columnist, stringer, Brit paragraphist, US paragrapher, Colloq pen-pusher, pencil-pusher, sob sister, Brit journo: These days all those who know how to write call themselves writers.
YEARLY|12|adv. 1 annually, perennially, every year, once a year, year after year, year in (and) year out, regularly: We watch the Canada geese migrate north yearly. 2 per year, per annum, by the year, each year: What is the interest rate yearly? --adj. 3 annual, perennial, once-a-year, regular: Those yearly migrations told us when to plant the first crop.
YESMAN|11|n. toady, sycophant, toad-eater, time-server, hanger-on, lickspittle, bootlicker, truckler, flunkey, courtier, jackal, spaniel, lap-dog, Taboo slang Brit arse-kisser, arse-licker, US ass-kisser, ass-licker, US brown-noser: He surrounds himself with yes-men, then says he refuses to take no for an answer.
ZEALOT|15|n. fanatic, extremist, radical, bigot, maniac, militant: We have to deal with ruthless zealots who are willing to die for their cause.
ZENITH|13|n. meridian, summit, acme, apex, vertex, apogee, high point, top, peak, pinnacle: The dictator reached the zenith of his power very quickly.
ABHOR|0|v. hate, loathe, detest, abominate, execrate; regard or view with horror or dread or fright or repugnance or loathing or disgust, shudder at, recoil or shrink from; be or stand aghast at: He said that he abhorred any violation of human rights.
ABIDE|0|v. 1 stand, endure, suffer, submit to, bear, put up with, accept, tolerate, brook: How can you abide the company of such a fool? 2 live, stay, reside, dwell, sojourn: Local people believe that the rain god abides in these mountains. 3 remain, stay, continue, tarry; linger, rest: He'll abide in my care till he can walk again. 4 abide by. consent to, agree to, comply with, observe, acknowledge, obey, follow, submit to, conform to, keep to, remain true to, stand firm by, adhere to, hold to: You must abide by the rules of the club if you become a member.
ABODE|0|n. residence, dwelling, dwelling-place, house, home, domicile, habitation, quarters, lodging, accommodation Military billet; Colloq Brit digs, diggings: He was described as being of no fixed abode.
ABOUT|0|adv. 1 round, around, close by, nearby, on every side: Gather about, for I have something to tell you. 2 approximately, around, nearly, roughly, more or less, almost, close to or upon; give or take: In 1685 London had been, for about half a century, the most populous capital in Europe. Light travels at about 186,000 miles a second. 3 to and fro, up and down, back and forth, here and there, hither and yon, far and wide, hither and thither: He wandered about aimlessly for several days. 4 here and there, far and wide, hither and yon, hither and thither, helter-skelter: My papers were scattered about as if a tornado had struck. 5 around, prevalent, in the air: There is a lot of flu about this year. 6 approximately, nearly, close to, not far from, almost, just about, around: It is about time you telephoned your mother. --prep. 7 around, surrounding, encircling: There is a railing about the monument. 8 round, around, all round, everywhere, in all directions, all over: Please look about the room for my hat. 9 near, nearby, adjacent to, beside, alongside, close by, nigh: There were a lot of trees about the garden. 10 with, at hand, Colloq on: I am sorry, but I haven't my cheque-book about me. 11 touching, concerning, connected with, involving, in or with reference to, in or with regard to, regarding, in the matter of, with respect to, respecting, relative to, relating to, apropos, Formal anent: He wrote a book about the Spanish Armada.
ABOVE|0|adv. 1 overhead, on high, aloft, in the sky or heavens: Far above, the clouds scudded swiftly by. 2 upstairs: They lived on the ground floor and the landlady lived above. --prep. 3 on, on (the) top of, upon, over, atop: The plume of smoke remained fixed above the volcano. He hasn't got a roof above his head for the night. 4 over, more than, exceeding, in excess of, beyond, greater than, surpassing: The operations are controlled by gears, of which there are above fifty in number. 5 insusceptible to, unaffected by, out of reach of, not susceptible or vulnerable or exposed to, superior to: The judge is above bribery or other influence. 6 above all. before or beyond everything, first of all, chiefly, primarily, in the first place, mainly, essentially, at bottom: Above all, serve God and country before you serve yourself.
ABUSE|0|v. 1 misuse, misemploy, pervert, misapply, exploit: The officer abused his authority in ordering the forced march at midnight. 2 maltreat, ill-use, injure, wrong, hurt, mistreat, manhandle, ill-treat; damage: I cannot stand by and watch that drunk abuse his wife and family. 3 malign, revile, censure, upbraid, assail, objurgate, lambaste, berate, rebuke, scold, reproach, disparage, traduce, defame, insult, swear at, curse (at), calumniate, slander, libel, decry, deprecate, vilify, rail against: In the report the director was abused in the most virulent terms. --n. 4 misuse, misusage, misemployment, perversion, misapplication, misappropriation, Rhetoric catachresis: Beware of imitating his abuse of the language. 5 addiction, dependence: They are being treated for drug abuse at the local clinic. 6 maltreatment, ill-treatment, ill use, fault: It seemed perfectly natural that he should defend abuses by which he profited. 7 self-abuse, self-pollution, masturbation, violation, defilement; corruption: The schoolmasters consistently lectured the boys against any abuse of themselves. 8 revilement, reviling, execration, vituperation, malediction, imprecation, tongue-lashing, calumny, calumniation, vilification, obloquy, scurrility, invective, maligning, upbraiding, berating, objurgation, scolding; billingsgate: The two parties, after exchanging a good deal of abuse, came to blows.
ABYSS|0|n. deep, abysm, bottomless gulf, yawning chasm, gaping void, unfathomable cavity, impenetrable depth(s): The path led straight down into the abyss. In the scandal the MP was plunged into the abyss of disgrace.
ACUTE|0|adj. 1 sharp, pointed, narrow: The two roads meet at an acute angle. 2 severe, intense, critical, crucial, dangerous, grave, serious, severe: This is the ward for patients with acute illnesses. 3 sharp, cutting, intense, severe, violent, penetrating, exquisite, excruciating, fierce, shooting, stabbing, piercing, sudden: The onset of the disease is marked by acute pains in the abdomen. 4 keen, sharp, sensitive: The bloodhound is known for its acute sense of smell. 5 keen, sharp-witted, shrewd, clever, ingenious, astute, sharp, canny, incisive, discerning, perceptive, perspicacious, intelligent, penetrating, insightful, percipient, wise, sensitive, discriminating; alert, aware, on the qui vive: Such a circumstance could not be lost upon so acute an observer.
ADEPT|0|adj. 1 versed, proficient, skilled, well-skilled, expert, accomplished, skilful or US skillful, adroit, dexterous or dextrous, able, masterful, masterly, polished: She is an adept pianist, and her husband is adept at carpentry. --n. 2 expert, master, specialist, authority , Colloq dab hand, old hand: He is an adept at anything that one does with one's hands.
ADMIT|0|v. 1 let in, allow to enter, take or allow in; accept, receive: I opened the window to admit some air. The harbour is too small to admit even one more ship. 2 allow, permit, grant, brook, tolerate: The governor will admit no delay in the execution of the sentence, and the prisoner will be hanged at dawn. 3 accept, concede, acquiesce, allow, grant, accept, recognize, take cognizance of: Descartes' principle admitted nothing but what his own consciousness obliged him to admit. 4 confess, own, concede, divulge, reveal, acknowledge, declare: She readily admitted to having incited the riot.
ADORE|0|v. 1 esteem, honour, respect, admire; idolize, dote on: An entire generation adored the Beatles. 2 worship, venerate, reverence, revere, exalt; hallow: O! Come let us adore him - Christ, the Lord! 3 love, be in love with, cherish, fancy, revere, adulate, Colloq have a crush on, carry the or a torch for: Katie just adores the captain of the football team at school.
ADULT|0|adj. 1 mature, grown (up), full-grown, matured, of age: Now that you are adult, you come into a large inheritance. --n. 2 grown-up: Tiger cubs are cute, but the adults are very dangerous.
AFOUL|0|adv. afoul of. entangled with, in trouble with, in conflict with, at odds with: Barbara fell afoul of the new tax regulations.
AGENT|0|n. 1 representative, intermediary, go-between, proxy, emissary, delegate, spokesman, spokeswoman, spokesperson, deputy, substitute, surrogate, advocate, emissary, legate, envoy, factor: Our agent in Tokyo will look after the matter for you. 2 factor, agency, cause, means, force, instrument, power, vehicle, ingredient: The active agent in this cleaner is ammonia.
AGILE|0|adj. 1 nimble, quick, brisk, swift, active, lively, lithe, limber, spry, sprightly: Sofia is an agile dancer. 2 keen, sharp, alert, dexterous or dextrous, resourceful, acute: With his agile mind Richard was able to solve the problems in no time at all.
AGREE|0|v. 1 concur, conform, come or go together, coincide, correspond, harmonize, reconcile; accord, tally, Colloq jibe: At last my cheque-book agrees with my bank statement! 2 Often, agree to. consent to, favour, acquiesce in or to, approve of, accede to, assent to: They finally agreed to our offer. We agreed terms with respect to the contract. 3 concede, grant, consent, admit, approve, allow, accept, concur; accede (to), acquiesce (in or to), assent (to), see eye to eye: The committee agreed that she should be given time to comply with the request. I objected and they agreed with me. 4 agree with. suit: The climate in England agrees with me, strange to say.
AHEAD|0|adv. 1 at the or in front, in advance, in the lead or vanguard, up ahead, before, to the fore: The general rode ahead. 2 winning: At half time, our team was ahead by two points. 3 onward(s), forward(s), on: Please move ahead if you can.
ALARM|0|n. 1 warning, alert, danger- or distress-signal; tocsin, bell, gong, siren, whistle, horn: At the approach of the storm, the lookouts gave the alarm. The alarm is set to wake me at four o'clock. 2 fear, fright, apprehension, dismay, trepidation, terror, dread, anxiety, excitement, panic, consternation, distress, nervousness, uneasiness, discomfort: He viewed with alarm the arrest of his next-door neighbours. --v. 3 frighten, scare, daunt, startle, terrify, panic; unnerve, dismay, disturb, upset: She was alarmed at the news of the car crash. Don't be alarmed - such delays are quite normal.
ALERT|0|adj. 1 awake, wide awake, watchful, vigilant, attentive, heedful, wary, cautious, on the qui vive, aware, on guard, on the lookout, observant, Colloq on the ball, on one's toes: The sentinels must remain alert throughout the night. Kenneth is alert to the perils of smoking cigarettes. 2 active, nimble, lively, agile, active, quick, spry, sprightly, vivacious: He is an alert and joyous old soul. --n. 3 lookout: She is always on the alert for new ways of saving money. 4 alarm, warning, signal, siren: Sound the air-raid alert! --v. 5 warn, caution, advise, alarm, forewarn, signal, notify: We must alert him to the fact that the man is a vicious killer.
ALIBI|0|n. 1 excuse, explanation: Your alibi places you very close to the scene of the crime. --v. 2 excuse, explain: Caught red-handed, she couldn't alibi her way out of it.
ALIEN|0|adj. 1 foreign, strange, exotic, outlandish, unfamiliar: The customs of the country were alien to me. --n. 2 foreigner, stranger, outlander, outsider, non-native, immigrant, newcomer: Aliens are required to register during January.
ALIKE|0|adj. 1 similar, akin, resembling or like one another, akin to or similar to one another, showing or exhibiting a resemblance: They began to think all religions were alike. --adv. 2 in like manner, in the same manner or way, similarly, equally, uniformly, identically: She believes that all people should be treated alike.
ALIVE|0|adj. 1 living, live, breathing, among the living, in the land of the living: My great-grandfather is still alive, in spite of years of defying medical advice. 2 alive to. sensitive or alert to, aware or conscious of, aware or cognizant of: She is alive to every slight nuance in the poem. 3 alert, active, lively, vivacious, quick, spirited, animated, brisk, spry, sprightly, vigorous, energetic: Look alive, my lads, and hoist away! 4 astir, teeming, swarming, thronging, crowded, packed, buzzing, crawling, jumping, bustling, humming, Colloq lousy: In a few minutes the water around the corpse was alive with deadly piranha.
ALLOT|0|v. distribute, apportion, allocate, earmark, assign, parcel or dole out, deal (out), divide, share (out), dispense: The millionaire allotted an equal share of his fortune to each of his children.
ALLOW|0|v. 1 acknowledge, admit, grant, concede, own: He allowed that he had not been completely truthful about his movements that night. 2 agree to, concede, cede to, admit, permit, authorize, entertain, consent to: The judge said that he would allow a plea of 'guilty with an explanation'. 3 permit, let, suffer: Please allow the children to select their own friends. 4 tolerate, stand (for), brook, sanction, countenance, permit, consider, put up with: The headmaster refuses to allow such goings-on at his school. 5 give, let (someone) have, appropriate, grant, budget, earmark, assign, allocate, assign, approve: The company allowed him ø100 a day for expenses. 6 make allowance or concession for, set apart or aside, put aside, take into account or consideration; add; deduct: You must allow at least an extra hour for the traffic during rush hour. The shipper allows ten kilos for the weight of the container.
ALLOY|0|n. 1 mixture, mix, combination, compound, composite, blend, amalgam, admixture; aggregate: Brass is an alloy of copper and zinc. --v. 2 contaminate, pollute, adulterate, debase, diminish, impair, vitiate: Their external prosperity was not alloyed by troubles from within. 3 change, modify, temper, alter, moderate, allay: Gentle persons might by their true patience alloy the hardness of the common crowd.
ALOFT|0|adv. above, overhead, (up) in the air, in flight, up (above); on high; heavenwards, skyward: The plane was overloaded, but we finally made it aloft. Five women held the banner aloft.
ALONE|0|adj. 1 unaccompanied, unescorted, solitary, by oneself, tout(e) seule, solo, unattended, unassisted; abandoned, desolate, deserted: I am alone in the world. Leave me alone. 2 unequalled, unparalleled, unique, singular, unexcelled, unsurpassed, without equal, peerless, matchless: As a poet, Don stands alone. --adv. 3 solitarily, by oneself, solo: I'll walk alone. 4 only, solely, exclusively, simply, just, merely: You alone can help me.
ALTER|0|v. change, revise, modify, vary, transform; adjust, adapt, convert, remodel: After the attack, we altered our opinion of the rebels. The dress fits better since being altered.
AMASS|0|v. accumulate, mass, pile or heap or rack up, collect, gather (together), assemble, aggregate, cumulate, stock or store up, hoard, set aside: How many points have you amassed? Owing to the bountiful harvest, the farmers amassed huge amounts of grain.
AMAZE|0|v. astound, astonish, surprise, awe, stun, stagger, take aback, floor, dumbfound or dumfound, confound, nonplus, stupefy, Colloq flabbergast, dazzle: Annie Oakley amazed audiences with her fancy shooting. I was amazed that she still cared for me.
AMEND|0|v. 1 reform, change for the better, improve, better, ameliorate: The prisoner believes he could amend his ways if given the chance. 2 correct, emend, emendate, rectify, set to rights, repair, fix, revise: Take whatever time you need to amend the text.
AMISS|0|adj. 1 wrong, at fault, awry, out of order, faulty, defective, improper, untoward; astray, erroneous, fallacious, confused, incorrect, off: Something is amiss with the ignition. If I am amiss in my thinking, let me know. --adv. 2 wrong, awry, badly, poorly, imperfectly; inopportunely, unfavourably, unpropitiously: Everything possible has already gone amiss with the rocket launch. 3 wrongly, improperly, badly; incorrectly, inappropriately: A word of advice might not come amiss here. 4 take or think (it) amiss. mistake, misinterpret, misunderstand, take offence (at): I trust that you will not take amiss what I intended as constructive criticism.
AMONG|0|prep. 1 amongst, amid, amidst, mid, in the midst or middle or centre of, surrounded by: Please take a seat among the people over there. We lay down among the flowers. 2 among, to each or all (of): The examination booklets were passed out among the students.
AMPLE|0|adj. 1 broad, wide, spacious, extensive, expansive, great: Her ample bosom heaved with sobs. 2 wide-ranging, extensive, broad: In one ample swoop they snatched up all the land. 3 abundant, extensive, fruitful: The event proved a very ample subject for history. 4 abundant, full, complete, plentiful, copious, generous, substantial; sufficient, adequate, enough: He had stored ample provision of food for the winter. 5 liberal, unsparing, unstinted, unstinting, generous, substantial, large, lavish: Steve's contributions have always been ample, especially at Christmas time. 6 copious, full, broad, detailed, extensive, extended, thorough: The subject deserves more ample treatment.
AMPLY|0|adv. 1 widely, broadly, extensively, greatly, expansively: This fabric stretches amply enough to fit over the couch. 2 to a great extent, largely, fully, abundantly: My confidence in her was amply recompensed by her success. 3 abundantly, fully, copiously: The prophecy was amply fulfilled. 4 fully, well, liberally, unstintingly, generously, richly, substantially, lavishly; sufficiently: He has been amply paid for his work.
AMUSE|0|v. 1 divert, entertain, please, beguile, interest, occupy: Perhaps the crossword puzzle will amuse her while she is waiting. 2 make laugh, delight, cheer, Colloq tickle: That form of rowdy slapstick doesn't amuse me.
ANGER|0|n. 1 rage, wrath, ire, fury, pique, spleen, choler; antagonism, irritation, vexation, indignation, displeasure, annoyance, irritability, resentment, outrage: Her anger got the better of her, so she simply punched him. --v. 2 enrage, infuriate, madden, pique, incense, raise one's hackles, make one's blood boil, rile, gall; annoy, irritate, vex, nettle, displease, exasperate, provoke: Father was so angered by the insult that he refused to pay.
ANGLE|0|n. 1 slant, oblique, corner, edge, intersection; bend, cusp, point, apex, projection: The two walls meet at an angle. 2 slant, point of view, aspect, viewpoint, standpoint, approach, position, side, perspective: The managing editor told me he's looking for a new angle on the kidnapping story.
ANNOY|0|v. 1 irritate, bother, irk, vex, nettle, get on (someone's) nerves, exasperate, provoke, incense, rile, madden, Colloq get at: The anonymous telephone calls were beginning to annoy us. 2 pester, harass, harry, badger, nag, plague, molest, bedevil, Colloq bug, needle, hassle, Slang get up someone's nose: Stop annoying me with your persistent requests for money.
APART|0|adv. 1 aside, to one side, by oneself, at a distance, separate, separately: He stood apart when the awards were given out. 2 separately, distinctly, individually, singly, alone, independently: The provisions of the bill should be seen together as a whole, not viewed apart. 3 to or into pieces, asunder: At the touch of the button, the building blew apart. 4 apart from. except for, excepting, separately from, aside from, besides, but for, not including, excluding, not counting: Apart from the immediate family, no one knows of your indiscretions.
APPAL|0|v. dismay, shock, discomfit, unnerve, intimidate, terrify, frighten, scare, horrify, alarm, startle, daunt: The council were appalled to discover that the police superintendent was accepting bribes.
APPLY|0|v. 1 fasten, fix, affix, stick, cement, glue: The signs were applied to the window with a special substance. 2 administer, rub in or on, embrocate: The doctor said to apply this ointment before retiring. 3 appropriate, assign, allot, credit; use, utilize, employ, put to use: He had many skills, but failed to apply them in his daily work. The money raised for food was illegally applied to paying the administrators. 4 bear, have bearing; be relevant, refer, pertain, appertain, relate, suit: I am not sure that the law applies to this situation. 5 devote, dedicate, commit, focus, concentrate, pay attention, address; do, attend, tend, Colloq buckle down (to): He stubbornly applies himself to the task at hand. 6 seek, go after; register, bid, try out, put in; audition, interview, make application: Are you qualified to apply for a job as a nanny? 7 petition, solicit; appeal, request: Geraldine applied to the court for compensation.
ARGUE|0|v. 1 dispute, debate, disagree, bicker, wrangle, quarrel, squabble, spar, fight, remonstrate, altercate, Colloq chiefly Brit row, scrap: The couple next door are continually arguing with each other at the tops of their voices. 2 discuss, reason, debate, wrangle: He would argue by the hour, but never for arguing's sake. 3 make a case, talk, plead, debate, contend: I cannot tell whether she's arguing for or against the proposition. 4 prove, evince, indicate, denote, demonstrate, show, establish, suggest, signify, betoken: The increase in street crime argues that the police are not visible enough. 5 say, assert, hold, maintain, reason, claim, contend: The defendant argued that he had never met the witness. 6 argue into or out of. persuade or dissuade, talk out of or into, prevail upon; convince: I argued him out of sailing to Bermuda alone. She succeeded in arguing me into going to the tea dance.
ARISE|0|v. 1 rise, get up, stand up, get to one's feet; wake up, get out of bed, awake: We arose when Lady Spencer entered the room. I have arisen before dawn all my life. 2 rise, go up, come up, ascend, climb; mount: The full moon arose in the eastern sky. 3 come up, be brought up, be mentioned, Colloq crop up: The subject never would have arisen if the waiter hadn't spilt the wine on me. 4 spring up, begin, start (up), originate, come up, Colloq crop up: A very unpleasant situation has arisen regarding the missing funds.
AROMA|0|n. 1 smell, odour, fragrance, scent, perfume, savour, bouquet; redolence: Don't you just love to be awakened by the aroma of fresh coffee? 2 smell, odour, character, aura, atmosphere, flavour, hint, suggestion: There is an aroma of dishonesty about them that I can't quite identify.
ASSET|0|n. 1 Also, assets. property, resources, possessions, holdings, effects, capital, means, valuables, money, wealth: We have to pay a tax on the company's assets. Her only liquid asset was some shares in the Suez Canal Company. 2 talent, strength, advantage, resource, benefit: His main asset is that he speaks fluent Japanese.
ATONE|0|v. expiate, make amends, pay, repay, answer, compensate; redress, remedy, propitiate, redeem: Nothing can atone for her betrayal of him to the enemy. He has atoned for his sins many times over.
AVOID|0|v. shun, keep (away) from, keep off, leave alone, keep or steer clear of, refrain from, dodge, circumvent, sidestep, elude, escape, evade: The doctor suggested that I avoid chocolate. Why does Bennie avoid looking me straight in the eye?
AWAKE|0|v. 1 wake (up), awaken, get up, rouse or bestir oneself: When I awoke, she was standing over me with a pistol. 2 awaken, animate, arouse, rouse, stimulate, revive, incite, excite, activate, alert, stir up, fan, kindle, ignite, fire: Marches awaken my sense of patriotism. 3 awake to. awaken to, wake up to, realize, understand, become aware or conscious of: I finally awoke to the fact that my tax return was overdue. --adj. 4 up, aroused, roused, wide awake, up and about, alert, on the alert, on the qui vive, watchful, on guard, attentive, conscious; heedful, alive: I'm always awake a few minutes before the alarm goes off.
AWARD|0|v. 1 grant, give, confer, bestow, present, accord, furnish, endow with; assign, apportion: Her dog was awarded the blue ribbon in the club show. --n. 2 prize, trophy, reward: The award for the tidiest boats has been won by the Bristol Yacht Club. 3 grant, bestowal, presentation, endowment, awarding: Before the award of the prizes, we listened to speeches. Profits were up last year despite a large pay award.
AWARE|0|adj. 1 informed, apprised, knowledgeable, knowing, posted, in the know, enlightened, au fait, au courant, cognizant, Slang hip, hep, wise: She is well aware of the consequences. 2 sensitive, sensible, conscious: I became aware that someone was watching us.
AWFUL|0|adj. 1 bad, terrible, inferior, base, abominable, rotten, horrible, horrid; tasteless, unsightly, ugly, hideous, grotesque, Slang lousy, Brit naff, Chiefly US hellacious: That is an awful piece of sculpture. I feel awful this morning. 2 frightful, shocking, execrable, unpleasant, grotesque, nasty, ghastly, gruesome, horrendous, horrifying, horrific, horrible, unspeakable: That was an awful thing to do.
BADLY|0|adv. 1 poorly, defectively, insufficiently, inadequately, unsatisfactorily, carelessly, ineptly, shoddily, inadequately, deficiently: We lived in a badly furnished flat in the East End. 2 unfortunately, unluckily, unsuccessfully, unfavourably, poorly: These are an improvement on the former rules, which worked badly. 3 incorrectly, faultily, defectively, poorly, improperly, inaccurately, erroneously, unacceptably; ineptly, inartistically, amateurishly, awfully: He speaks English badly. He sings badly. 4 immorally, wickedly, viciously, mischievously, naughtily, shamefully, improperly, villainously: The school has had its share of badly behaved pupils. 5 dangerously, severely, gravely, critically, grievously, seriously: Her father was badly wounded in the war. 6 unkindly, cruelly, harshly, severely, wretchedly, dreadfully, improperly, atrociously, horribly, unspeakably: The prisoners were treated so badly that few survived. 7 unfavourably, damagingly, critically: Even her friends spoke badly of her. 8 very much, greatly, seriously: Peter is badly in need of extra money. 9 distressfully, emotionally, hard: He took the news badly.
BANAL|0|adj. trite, hackneyed, stereotyped, clich÷d, stereotypical, commonplace, old hat, stock, common, everyday, ordinary, pedestrian, humdrum, tired, unoriginal, unimaginative, platitudinous; trivial, petty, jejune, Slang corny: The book was blasted as banal and boring. The plot of boy-meets-girl, though banal, still brings in the audiences.
BASIC|0|adj. fundamental, essential, key, elementary, underlying, prime, primary, root; principal, central, focal, vital: He enrolled for a basic course in Sanskrit. We must reconsider the basic facts.
BEACH|0|n. 1 shore, lakeshore, bank, seashore, seaside, lido, strand, coast, margin, Formal littoral: The children wanted to go to the beach and build sandcastles. --v. 2 ground, run aground, strand; careen: Despite the heavy surf, we finally beached the boat safely.
BEAMY|0|adj. broad, wide, broad in the beam; big, heavy, chubby, chunky, fat, obese: She's quite a beamy boat, with accommodation for eight below. A beamy gentleman sat on my homburg, squashing it flat.
BEAST|0|n. 1 animal, creature, being: He loves all the beasts of the field, of the sea, and of the air. 2 brute, savage, animal, monster: I've seen that beast hitting his wife in public.
BEGIN|0|v. 1 start (out or off or in or on), initiate, enter on or upon, set out or about, set out on or upon, Rather formal commence: We began the journey full of enthusiasm. 2 start (off), inaugurate, originate, open, launch, create, establish, found, set up; go into: We began the company five years ago. 3 arise, start, originate, Rather formal commence: The greatness of the Prussian monarchy begins with Frederick II. The paragraph begins in the middle of the page.
BELOW|0|adv. 1 lower down, further down, farther down: Please see the explanation given below. The department head could no longer resist the pressures from below. 2 beneath, underneath, under; downstairs, Nautical below-decks, Brit below-stairs: Can you hear someone walking about below? They put the captain in irons below. 3 on earth, here, in this world, under the sun: Man wants but little here below. --prep. 4 under, underneath, beneath: Below the sea live creatures we have never even seen. Barely discernible below his nose was a tiny moustache. Sign your name below 'Yours truly'. 5 less or lower or cheaper than: The sale price is below cost. 6 deeper or further or farther down than: The current is strongest about six feet below the surface. 7 under, beneath, underneath: Her bright eyes peered at him from below the wide hat. 8 lower or less than, under: The temperature was 20 degrees below zero. 9 inferior or subordinate to, lower than: He gives orders to the servants below him. 10 inferior or secondary to, under, beneath, lower than: In exports, the USA and UK are below Japan. 11 beneath, unworthy of, unbefitting, not worth: Mugging old ladies is below contempt.
BESET|0|v. encompass, surround, besiege; assail, attack, harass, harry, hector, bother, afflict, trouble: She was beset by all the problems involved in having a job and a family.
BIRTH|0|n. 1 childbirth, delivery, Technical parturition, Old-fashioned confinement: Nicole is expecting the birth of her first baby in early April. 2 origin, creation, emergence, beginning, start, origination: I believe we may be present at the birth of a powerful idea. 3 nativity, origin, extraction; parentage, line, lineage, ancestry, descent, family, blood: She is Scottish by birth. Hortense is of noble birth.
BITCH|0|n. 1 shrew, nag, termagant, virago, harpy, fury, spitfire, scold: That greedy bitch has the house, and now she's suing me for half my income. 2 whore, prostitute, bawd, harlot, call-girl, trollop, strumpet, trull, drab, tart, floozie, streetwalker, Colloq bimbo, pro, US hooker, tramp, hustler,: He roamed the street every night, ending up with some bitch he found in a bar. --v. 3 complain, object, protest, grumble, Colloq gripe: Oh, stop your bitching and get on with it! 4 bungle, botch, ruin, spoil: They bitched the job by using too little paint.
BLACK|0|adj. 1 jet, jet-black, coal-black, inky, sooty, swart, swarthy, raven, ebony, dusky, Literary ebon, hyacinthine: Her hair was as black as coal. 2 Negro, Negroid, coloured, dark-skinned: Most of the Black races live near or south of the equator. 3 dark, pitch-black, jet-black, coal-black, Stygian; starless, moonless: He bundled his coat round himself and walked into the black night. 4 dark, sombre, dusky, gloomy, menacing, glowering, louring or lowering, threatening, funereal: The sky became black with storm clouds. 5 malignant, baleful, baneful, deadly, deathly, sinister, dismal, hateful, disastrous: It was a black day when he came into my life. 6 bad, foul, iniquitous, wicked, evil, diabolical, infernal, hellish, atrocious, awful, malicious, abominable, outrageous, vicious, villainous, flagitious, vile, disgraceful, unscrupulous, unconscionable, unprincipled, blackguardly, knavish, perfidious, insidious, nefarious, dastardly, treacherous, unspeakable, disgraceful, shameful, scurvy, criminal, felonious: You have told the blackest lies about me. 7 angry, wrathful, furious, frowning, bad-tempered, sulky, resentful, clouded, threatening, glowering: She gave him a black look and he withered in abject fear. --v. 8 boycott, embargo, blacklist, ban, interdict: Because of the dispute over plumbers' wages, the other building-trades unions have blacked every manufacturer in the business.
BLADE|0|n. 1 knife, cutting edge: Don't hold the knife by the blade. 2 Literary sword, rapier, sabre, dagger, poniard, stiletto, cutlass, bayonet, knife, penknife, jackknife: She plunged the blade in up to the hilt. 3 leaf, leaflet, frond, shoot: The blades of grass were flattened where he had walked. 4 Rather old-fashioned playboy, ladies' man, man about town, fop, dandy: He was quite a gay blade in his youth.
BLAME|0|v. 1 find fault with, censure, criticize, fault; accuse, charge, indict, condemn, point to, point (the finger) at, rebuke, reprimand, recriminate, reproach, scold, reprehend, reprove: Don't blame me if you can't get to school on time. 2 hold responsible, fix (the) responsibility upon or on, put or place or lay (the) blame on, lay at someone's door, denounce, incriminate: Why blame Carol for the mess? --n. 3 censure, criticism, reproof, rebuke, recrimination, disapproval, disapprobation, reproach, objurgation, condemnation, reprehension: The cyclist put the blame for the accident on me. 4 culpability, responsibility; guilt, Slang rap: Why should you take the blame for something that Donald did?
BLAND|0|adj. 1 gentle, soothing, smooth, mild, suave, urbane, cool, unruffled, calm, composed, unemotional, nonchalant, insouciant: His reaction to the news of the invasion was bland indifference. 2 insipid, boring, dull, uninteresting, ennuyant, tasteless, Colloq US plain vanilla; Slang US blah: The play is a bland mixture of clich÷s embedded in a tired plot.
BLANK|0|adj. 1 empty, plain, bare: I stared at the blank paper, unable to write even my name. 2 unornamented, unadorned, undecorated, void: Whenever Irena sees a blank wall she feels compelled to hang a painting on it. 3 vacant, empty: The actor's mind went completely blank --he had forgotten his lines. 4 passive, impassive, expressionless, emotionless, vacuous, mindless, unexpressive: He gave us a blank look when asked about the missing rare stamps. 5 disconcerted, discomfited, nonplussed, confused, helpless, resourceless, perplexed, dazed, bewildered: The two old men looked at each other with blank and horror-stricken faces. 6 unrelieved, stark, sheer, utter, pure, unmixed, absolute, unqualified: Jack faced the blank prospect of solitary confinement. --n. 7 space; line, box: Please fill in the blanks on the form. 8 nothing, zero, nil; void, emptiness: I asked her when the baby was coming, but I drew a blank.
BLARE|0|v. 1 blast, bellow, trumpet, ring, boom, thunder, roar, bray; resound, echo, reverberate, resonate: Everyone in the neighbourhood can hear your hi-fi blaring. --n. 2 blast, bellow, ring, roar, boom, noise, sound, clamour: The games began with a blare of trumpets.
BLAST|0|n. 1 blow, gust, wind, gale: The door opened and a blast of icy air made us shiver. 2 blare, sound, noise, racket, din, bellow, roar; boom: At the trumpet-blast thousands of Goths descended screaming on the camp. 3 explosion, burst, eruption, discharge; detonation: A blast of dynamite levelled all the houses in the vicinity. 4 (at or in) full blast. fully, at full tilt, at the maximum, completely, thoroughly, entirely, maximally, Slang with no holds barred, US to the max: The factory was going full blast before the strike. --v. 5 blow up, explode, dynamite, demolish, destroy, ruin, waste, lay waste, shatter, devastate: The pillbox was blasted out of existence by our guns. 6 defame, discredit, denounce, criticize, attack; ruin, destroy: The candidate has been blasted by the press. 7 curse, damn: The minister continued to blast the proposal till the legislature dropped it.
BLAZE|0|n. 1 flame, fire, holocaust, inferno, conflagration: The fuel barrels exploded, feeding the blaze. 2 outburst, eruption, flare-up: Her speech fanned the Lower House into a blaze of resentment. 3 light, brightness, brilliance, brilliancy, glow: The blaze of lamps lit up the whole square. --v. 4 burn, flare up, flame: In a few minutes the logs were blazing merrily. 5 blaze away (at). fire, shoot, open fire, blast; bombard, shell: The enemy appeared, and we just blazed away at them.
BLEAK|0|adj. 1 cheerless, dreary, depressing, dismal, gloomy, sombre, melancholy, sad, unhappy, mournful: 1940 was one of the bleakest periods in British history. 2 cold, chilly, raw, bitter: The days were getting shorter, and the bleak winter was setting in. 3 barren, bare, exposed, windswept, desolate: How depressing the bleak landscape of the Russian steppes can be in winter!
BLEND|0|v. 1 mix, mingle, combine, meld, commingle, intermingle: The Latakia is blended with the Virginia to produce a fine smoking tobacco. 2 shade, grade, gradate, graduate, merge, coalesce, fuse, unite: Note how the pink sky and the tinted clouds blend in this Turner painting. --n. 3 mixture, mix, combination, mingling, meld, commingling, intermingling: His humour is a fine blend of the sardonic with slapstick.
BLESS|0|v. 1 consecrate, hallow, sanctify; extol, glorify, praise, revere, adore: God bless this ship and all who sail in her. Bless the Lord. 2 give, make happy or fortunate, endow, favour, furnish, provide, supply, grace: She is blessed with one of the most beautiful soprano voices that I have ever heard.
BLIND|0|adj. 1 sightless, eyeless, unsighted, purblind, stone-blind: He has been blind from birth. 2 imperceptive, slow, insensitive, thick, dense, obtuse, stupid, weak-minded, dull-witted, slow-witted, dim-witted, Colloq Brit gormless: How blind some parents are! There's another case of the blind leading the blind. 3 indiscriminate, undiscriminating, heedless, reckless, rash, impetuous, inconsiderate, unreasoning, mindless, senseless, thoughtless, unthinking, irrational, delusional: He did her bidding with the blind obedience of a dog. 4 blind to. unaware or unconscious of, impervious or insensible to, unaffected or untouched or unmoved by: The critics were blind to her merits as a novelist till many years had passed. --v. 5 deceive, blindfold, blinker; bamboozle, hoodwink, fool: Wolsey could not blind himself to the true condition of the church. How jealousy blinds people! 6 conceal, hide, eclipse, overshadow; dazzle, blindfold: The bright lights of the city blinded our view of the airport runway. Her beauty blinded him to her greed. --n. 7 shade, curtain, screen, cover, shutter(s), awning: The sun is too bright - please draw the blind. 8 pretence, pretext, front, cover, smokescreen, stratagem, subterfuge, ruse, trick, deception, Colloq dodge; Slang scam: The plumbing service is merely a blind for getting into houses to rob them.
BLISS|0|n. happiness, blitheness, gladness, joy, blessedness, delight, felicity, glee, enjoyment, pleasure, joyousness, cheer, exhilaration, gaiety, blissfulness, rapture, ecstasy: The bliss of our honeymoon has remained with us throughout our marriage.
BLUNT|0|adj. 1 dull, worn: This knife is too blunt to cut bread. 2 abrupt, curt, rough-spoken, plain-spoken, short, direct, candid, frank, unceremonious, undiplomatic, inconsiderate, thoughtless, brusque, outspoken, bluff, brash, indelicate, rude, uncivil, ungracious, discourteous, impolite; straightforward, straight, uncomplicated, uncompromising: Ralph may be blunt, but at least you know exactly where you stand with him. --v. 3 dull, take the edge off: You've blunted the scissors cutting that cardboard. 4 soften, mitigate, mollify, soothe; efface, dim, obscure, blur, weaken: Mother's love is an absorbing delight, blunting all other sensibilities.
BLURT|0|v. Usually, blurt out. burst out with, utter; reveal, disclose, give away, divulge, Colloq blab: She blurted out the name of her accomplice.
BLUSH|0|v. be or act ashamed, redden, flush, colour: He blushed when asked if he still loved Belinda.
BOARD|0|n. 1 plank, scantling, timber: We nailed the last board in place and the house was finished. 2 table, gaming-table, game table or surface: I have the chessmen, have you brought the board? 3 food, meals, provisions: I am moving to the country, where room and board are cheaper. 4 council, committee, directors, directorship, management, cabinet, panel, trustees, advisers: That issue will be discussed at the meeting of the board. 5 on board. aboard, on: Young children are not allowed on board the boat. --v. 6 go aboard, ship aboard; enter, embark on: We all boarded the ship but it didn't leave for an hour. 7 feed; eat, take meals; accommodate, lodge, house, billet, quarter; lodge, stay, live, room; Colloq put up: Mrs O'Brien already boards three gentlemen at her house, but she has agreed to let me board there too.
BOAST|0|n. 1 brag, bragging: They did not make good their boasts of being the fastest in the competition. --v. 2 brag, vaunt, crow, show off, Colloq US blow or toot one's (own) horn or trumpet; Slang lay it on thick, talk big: He boasted that he was the best poker player in the casino.
BONUS|0|n. reward, largesse, hand-out, perquisite, extra, honorarium, tip, gratuity, remuneration, compensation, Colloq perk: Employees often receive a Christmas bonus.
BOOST|0|n. 1 lift, shove or push up or upward(s), Colloq leg up; rise, raise: If you give me a boost up, I can reach the window ledge. 2 encouragement, help, aid, assistance, support: With a boost from your constituency, Trevor should win the vote. 3 increase, rise, US raise, hike: He was given a slight boost in salary as an incentive to stay. --v. 4 lift, shove or push up or upward(s), raise: He boosted her over the fence. The second stage is intended to boost the rocket beyond the atmosphere. 5 encourage, promote, help, aid, support, assist, improve: A talk from the manager before the game helped to boost the players' morale. 6 increase, raise: Her salary was boosted twice in one year.
BOOTY|0|n. plunder, gain, spoil(s), contraband, takings, loot, Slang swag, boodle, (hot) goods, take: The pirates fought over the booty seized from the Spanish galleon.
BOSOM|0|n. 1 breast, chest, bust; Slang boobs, knockers, tits, titties, pair, jugs, Brit Bristols: The sex goddess's lack of talent was more than compensated for by her ample bosom. 2 midst, interior, heart, core, centre: She was welcomed into the bosom of the family as if she had been their own child. 3 soul, heart, heart of hearts, bowels, blood, Colloq gut: I know he loves me, I can feel it in my bosom. --adj. 4 close, intimate, dear, beloved, cherished, boon, special, confidential: We were once bosom companions.
BOSSY|0|adj. overbearing, domineering, dictatorial, tyrannical, despotic, imperious, lordly: Her boyfriend is awfully bossy - and they're not even married yet.
BOUND|0|n. 1 Usually, bounds. boundary, boundary-line, limit(s), extent, border(s), confines: Please try to keep the dogs within the bounds of the estate. Carl's plan is beyond the bounds of common sense. --v. 2 limit, restrict, confine, delimit, define, circumscribe: The river bounds the property on the east. adj. 1 tied, fast, fixed, fastened, confined, secured: We were bound hand and foot and left in the cave. 2 obliged, obligated, required, constrained, forced, compelled: In the circumstances, Philippa was bound to do as she was told. 3 determined, resolved: Otto is bound to go to the party if Antonia is going. 4 likely, certain, sure, destined, predestined, fated, doomed: He is bound to get the sack if he goes on turning up late. 5 destined, scheduled, booked; headed, directed: We were bound for Cardiff.
BRACE|0|n. 1 bracket, stiffener, reinforcement, reinforcer, support, buttress, prop, stay, strut, truss: Two steel braces have been installed to steady the columns. 2 drill: He bored three holes in the wood with his brace and auger. 3 clasp, clamp, buckle, fastener, clip, holdfast, catch, coupler, coupling: Another brace will be needed here to strengthen the handle. 4 pair; couple, span, team (of two): A brace of duelling pistols was sold at auction last week for ø20,000. Her carriage was drawn by a brace of palominos. --v. 5 steady, reinforce, support, strengthen, prop or shore up: Iron bars are used to brace the arches. 6 brace oneself. steady or gird or prepare oneself; hold or hang on: I braced myself against the likelihood that she would refuse.
BRAID|0|n. 1 plait: Katrina wore her blond hair in a tightly coiled braid on top of her head. 2 trimming, embroidery, soutache, lace, fillet, band, ribbon: The edges are decorated with narrow braid containing gold thread. --v. 3 plait, intertwine, interlace, weave, twist: At school we learned how to braid leather laces into a belt.
BRAIN|0|n. 1 brains, intelligence, intellect, understanding, sense, thought, imagination, capacity, perspicacity, perceptiveness, perception, percipience; wisdom, sagacity, wit, discernment, acumen; knowledge, cognition: Although she's not yet ten, she has the brain to become a great mathematician. 2 genius, mastermind, intellectual; leader, planner: Many people regard Einstein as the greatest brain of the 20th century. Ivor was clearly the brains of the operation.
BRAKE|0|n. 1 curb, check, restraint, restriction, constraint, control, rein: The central bank applied a brake to the upward trend of the dollar by buying Deutschmarks. --v. 2 slow, slow up or down, put on or apply the brakes, reduce speed, decelerate, slacken, hold up: He braked before the bad curve. She braked the car going down the steep hill.
BRAND|0|n. 1 kind, make, type, sort, variety; brand name, manufacturer, maker, trade name, trade mark, label, mark, marque, Chiefly US and Canadian name brand: Which brand of toothpaste do you prefer? Our advertising agency is conducting a survey of brand loyalty. --v. 2 mark, stamp, identify, tag, label, trade-mark: We sell only branded merchandise in our shops. 3 label, characterize; stigmatize, discredit, disgrace: Because his actions at the front were misinterpreted, Corporal Williams was branded as a coward.
BRASS|0|n. effrontery, gall, nerve, temerity, impudence, insolence, rudeness, Colloq cheek, nerve: He had the brass to turn down a knighthood.
BRAVE|0|adj. 1 fearless, intrepid, bold, courageous, daring, gallant, stout, stout-hearted, valiant, valorous, stalwart, plucky, staunch, undaunted, dauntless, unafraid, unfearing, indomitable, heroic, Colloq macho; Slang gutsy: Despite her misgivings about her proposal, she put on a brave face in the boardroom. He was brave to face the enemy alone. 2 fine, handsome, grand, splendid, showy, colourful, spectacular, smart: The colonel made a brave appearance in full Highland regalia. --v. 3 challenge, defy, dare; brazen (out), face, confront, encounter, meet: We had to brave the elements in the open boat. I had to brave my father at breakfast.
BRAWL|0|n. 1 fight, mél÷e or melee, battle, battle royal, Donnybrook, fray, wrangle, dispute, disorder, brannigan, fracas, row, quarrel, squabble, Colloq punch-up, free-for-all, scrap, ruckus: The police had to be brought in to break up the brawl. --v. 2 fight, wrangle; row, quarrel, squabble, Colloq scrap: The two brothers always seem to be brawling.
BRAWN|0|n. muscle(s), strength, robustness, brawniness, might, power, Colloq huskiness: It must take a lot of brawn to lift those weights.
BREAK|0|v. 1 break apart or up or asunder, fracture, rupture, break into bits, come apart, shatter, shiver, crack, crash, splinter, fragment, split, burst, explode, Colloq bust: The ball flew over the fence and broke my neighbour's window. She fell and broke her wrist. 2 reveal, announce, disclose, divulge, tell, make public: Break the news to him gently. 3 relax, ease up, improve, ameliorate, change for the better: When will this spell of wet weather break? 4 demolish, smash, destroy, crush, ruin, defeat, foil, frustrate: The power of the dictator was finally broken. 5 ruin, bankrupt: He's the man that broke the bank at Monte Carlo. 6 weary, exhaust, wear out, weaken, debilitate: Twenty years in the chain-gang had broken him completely. 7 crush, overcome; cow, cripple, demoralize, weaken, undermine, discourage: The divorce has broken her spirit. 8 break in, tame, discipline, train, condition: I used to break horses for a living. 9 violate, transgress, disobey, contravene, defy, infringe, fail to observe, ignore, disregard, flout: If you break the law, you'll regret it. They broke the contract. 10 break off, discontinue, interrupt, sever, cut off; give up, suspend, disrupt: We broke relations with Spain after the incident. It is very difficult to break a habit of a lifetime. The narrative breaks at this point, to be taken up later. 11 break up, divide, disperse, scatter: The rain is over and the clouds are breaking. 12 break loose or away or forth, separate from, break out (of), escape (from), depart (from): The ship broke from its moorings during the storm. 13 break forth, burst forth; emerge or come out suddenly: The storm broke in all its fury. After a little while, the sun broke through. 14 demote, Colloq bust: He was broken from sergeant to private. 15 break away. leave, depart, separate (oneself): A small group broke away from the established church to worship as they saw fit. 16 break down. a demolish, destroy: All right, men, let's break down that wall. b decompose,...
BREED|0|n. 1 kind, sort, type, variety, species; race, lineage, stock, family, strain: What breed of dog won at Crufts this year? --v. 2 produce, generate, bring forth, create, engender, hatch, beget, give rise to, develop, cause: The cheese is so old it's breeding maggots. Familiarity breeds contempt. 3 raise, rear, cultivate, propagate: Charollais cattle are widely bred in Europe today. 4 arise, originate, appear; develop, grow, increase, multiply: The sergeant allowed discontent and jealousy to breed within his platoon.
BRICK|0|n. 1 block, cube, chunk, hunk, slab; stone: I bought a brick of ice-cream to serve for pudding. A university is not just bricks and mortar. 2 pal, comrade, friend, Colloq chum, US and Canadian buddy: You're a real brick to watch the children for me till I get back.
BRIEF|0|adj. 1 short, momentary, little, fleeting; short-lived, transitory, transient, evanescent, passing, temporary, ephemeral, fugitive: The lights went back on after a brief interval. His glory was brief. 2 short, concise, succinct, to the point; condensed, shortened, cut, curtailed, abbreviated, compressed, abridged, thumbnail, compendious: The chairman made a few brief remarks. Here is a brief description of what happened. 3 curt, abrupt, terse, short, blunt, brusque: You mustn't be so brief with little children. --n. 4 summary, outline, digest, pr÷cis, r÷sum÷, compendium, abstract, condensation, abridgement or US only abridgment, synopsis, extract: This is merely a brief; the full document will follow. 5 in brief. briefly, concisely, in sum, in summary, to sum up, succinctly, in a word: He is a cutthroat, too - in brief, the greatest scoundrel living. --v. 6 advise, inform, fill in, coach, instruct, enlighten; explain, run through or down: Howard will brief you on the details.
BRING|0|v. 1 carry, bear, fetch, get, take; deliver: Don't forget to bring some wine home for dinner tonight. 2 lead, conduct, convey; escort, invite, accompany: The road brought me to your house. You can bring anyone you like to the party. 3 draw, attract, lure, allure: What brings you to London? 4 carry, bear, convey; report: She brought word of the uprising. 5 bring on, bring about, occasion, give rise to, be the source or cause of, create, cause, engender, produce; contribute to: The thought of his mother brought tears to his eyes. 6 institute, advance; invoke: She is bringing charges against him for slander. 7 bring about. occasion, cause, bring on, accomplish, effect, achieve, produce: The government has brought about changes in the health service. 8 bring down. a overthrow, depose, oust, unseat, dethrone, overturn, topple: A military faction has brought down the government. b reduce, lessen, diminish, cut (back or down): The chancellor promised to bring down taxes in the next budget. 9 bring forth. a bear, give birth to, produce; yield: The kangaroo brings forth young less than an inch in size. b set forth, bring out or in or up, introduce, present, produce, put out, submit, offer, advance: Mr Hanson has brought forth a new sales plan. 10 bring in. a earn, yield, produce, realize, fetch, return, sell for: Advertising brings in more revenue than subscriptions. b See def. 15, below. 11 bring off. succeed (in), carry out, achieve, accomplish, do, carry out or off, perform, succeed, pull off; Colloq put over: Do you really think she'll be able to bring off her masquerade? 12 bring on. a produce, put on, introduce, bring in: When the children in the audience began to get restless, they brought on the clowns. b induce, produce, occasion, bring about: Eating strawberries brought on a rash. 13 bring out. a display, feature, focus on, illuminate, set off, make noticeable or conspicuous, emphasize, develop: The colour of the dress brings out the blue of your eyes. b publish, i...
BROAD|0|adj. 1 wide, expansive, large, extensive; spread out, ample, spacious: The broad highway stretched out for miles before them. Cattle graze in the broad pastures. 2 bright, plain, open, full; unshaded: He had the nerve to kiss me in broad daylight, in front of everyone! 3 plain, clear, obvious, emphatic, explicit, pronounced, direct, unconcealed, undisguised, unsubtle, evident: His wink gave a broad hint of what he really had in mind. 4 main, general, generalized, rough, unspecific, non-specific, approximate, sweeping: Without the details, here is a broad outline of what happened. 5 plain-spoken, outspoken, forthright, direct, unreserved, frank, candid, unrestrained: When he reached the witness box, he repeated the accusation in broad terms. 6 inclusive, general, widely applicable, extensive, wide-ranging, comprehensive, wholesale; vague, imprecise, indefinite, unfocused, non-specific, unspecified: We have broad support for these policies. She formulated a broad rule to fit all imaginable cases. 7 liberal, tolerant, catholic, ecumenical, latitudinarian: The term 'Broad Church' is said to have been coined by A. H. Clough. The judge feels that he must give the broadest possible interpretation of the law. 8 dirty, blue, coarse, rude, indecent, vulgar, improper, indelicate, off colour, loose, gross, obscene, lewd, lascivious, filthy, pornographic; inelegant, unrefined, unladylike, ungentlemanly, titillating: Peter was in the corner telling some of his broad jokes. --n. 9 woman, girl, Slang dame, cookie or cooky, skirt, bimbo, bird, chick, number, doll, piece (of baggage): We picked up a couple of broads at the dancehall last night.
BROIL|0|v. grill, barbecue: I think hamburgers taste better broiled than fried.
BROKE|0|adj. penniless, indigent, down-and-out, poverty-stricken, penurious, impoverished, insolvent, destitute, poor, needy, bankrupt, ruined, Colloq on one's beam-ends, on one's uppers, strapped, flat or dead or stony-broke, hard up, short, up against it, US flat, on the skids; Slang Brit skint: I was broke after paying the rent - I didn't even have money for food.
BROOK|0|n. stream, rivulet, run, runnel, rill, US and Canadian and Australian and New Zealand creek; No. Eng. dialect beck, gill or ghyll; Scots burn: The river is fed by numerous brooks from every part of the country.
BROTH|0|n. stock, bouillon, consomm÷; soup; decoction: We tossed food scraps into the large, simmering pot to make a broth.
BRUNT|0|n. (full) force, burden, onus, weight, impact; shock, stress, violence, onslaught: As the head of the department was on holiday, I had to take the full brunt of the customers' complaints.
BRUSH|0|n. 1 brushwood, shrubs, undergrowth, branches, scrub, brush, bracken, brambles, underbrush, underwood: It took us three days to clear the brush from around the house. 2 thicket, brake, copse, grove, boscage: The fox disappeared into the brush, which was too dense for the dogs to follow.
BRUTE|0|adj. 1 brutish, dull, unfeeling, senseless, blind, unintelligent, unthinking, thoughtless, mindless, unreasoning, irrational, instinctive, physical, material; insensate, unconscious: He was able to lift the safe without help, by sheer brute strength. --n. 2 animal, beast, savage: He wrote that man was the middle link between angels and brutes. George behaved like an absolute brute to her.
BUILD|0|v. 1 construct, erect, raise, set up, assemble: I hope to build my own house in another year or so. 2 found, establish, base: The theory is built on the principle that light travels at 186,000 miles per second. 3 develop: She built the company in about five years. 4 Also, build up. intensify; increase, develop, enlarge, strengthen: The distant hum of voices gradually built to a mighty roar. --n. 5 physique, figure, body, shape, Slang bod: He has a good build from working out at the gym.
BULGE|0|n. 1 lump, hump, protuberance, bump, swelling, projection: This wallet is making a bulge in my jacket. --v. 2 protrude, stick out, swell (out): His stomach bulges out over his belt.
BURST|0|v. break (asunder), rupture, shatter, explode, blow up; puncture; Slang bust: If it keeps raining the dam will burst and the valley will be flooded.
BUYER|0|n. customer, consumer, client, purchaser: Is it likely that you will find many buyers of Basque dictionaries in this country?
CABAL|0|n. 1 intrigue, plot, conspiracy, scheme: The cabal against Washington found supporters exclusively in the north. 2 junta or junto, clique, set, coterie, faction, band, league; unit, party, caucus, club; ring, gang: A cabal of artists was formed. --v. 3 intrigue, plot, conspire, connive, machinate: The barons began to sow dissension and to cabal against his succession.
CABIN|0|n. 1 hut, shack, cottage, cot, shanty; bungalow, lodge, chalet; Scots bothy: The old trapper lives in a cabin in the forest. You are welcome to come skiing with us and stay in our cabin. 2 stateroom, compartment, berth: We had a cabin on the starboard side.
CABLE|0|n. 1 wire, line, rope, hawser, chain, mooring, strand, guy: The cable broke and we were set adrift. 2 telegram, wire, cablegram, radiogram, US Mailgram: Send a cable to Jones about the meeting. --v. 3 telegraph, wire; radio: Cable Jones to come at once.
CACHE|0|n. 1 hiding-place, hole, vault, repository: There was a small cache concealed by the panelling in the library. 2 store, hoard, supply, reserve, nest egg, stockpile, Colloq US and Canadian stash: The wise hunter keeps a cache of supplies buried along his route. --v. 3 hide, store, conceal, squirrel away, secrete, bury, Colloq stash (away): I cached the money in a biscuit tin.
CANDY|0|n. sweet(s), bon-bon(s), sweetmeat(s), confectionery: Eating candy can be bad for your teeth.
CAPER|0|n. 1 skip, leap, spring, frolic, hop, gambol, frisk, curvet, gambado: He can dance, though he does not cut capers. 2 escapade, stunt, mischief, prank, high jinks, US crime, burglary, robbery, Colloq shenanigan, dido, lark, Slang US and Canadian job: The capers we used to get up to after lights-out in the dormitory! --v. 3 skip, hop, frolic, leap, jump, frisk, romp, gambol, prance, cavort, curvet: She capered about like a lamb in a meadow.
CARGO|0|n. shipment, consignment, shipload, truckload, wagon-load, load, trainload, US carload; freight, goods, merchandise: The cargo of rifles was delivered to the warehouse. The ship was lost with all its cargo.
CARRY|0|v. 1 transport, convey, bear, lug, drag, cart, move, Colloq tote, Slang US schlep: He shouldn't carry such heavy packages at his age. 2 conduct, convey, lead, take, transport, transfer, transmit: This cable carries the power to the town. 3 drive, impel, conduct, convey, take, move: He travelled aimlessly, wherever the wind carried his ship. 4 support, maintain, finance: I had a wife and four children and was unable to carry my brother's family as well. 5 bear, hold up, uphold, maintain: Despite her troubles, she carried her head high. 6 win, take, sweep, capture, gain, secure: She carried the election easily. 7 stock, sell, offer; display: We don't carry purple shoes in this shop, Madam. 8 broadcast, disseminate, offer, release; communicate, present, read, report, announce; give: The news is carried on this station every night at nine. 9 carry away. transport, excite, enrapture, delight: He was quite carried away by her attentions. 10 carry off. a win, gain, capture, secure: She managed to carry off the first prize for the third year running. b abscond with, kidnap, take, purloin, Colloq Brit pinch, nick: I'm afraid that some of your chickens have been carried off by a fox. c accomplish, perform, effect, do, succeed, handle or manage successfully, bring off, carry out: We carried off the raid without loss of a single man. d kill, be or cause the death of, cause to die: He was carried off by yellow fever in his eightieth year. 11 carry on. a continue, proceed, go on, persist, keep on or at, persevere: Don't stop - just carry on with what you were doing. b manage, conduct, operate: Despite the fire, we are carrying on our business as usual. c misbehave, Colloq act up, fool around, Brit play up: The children are carrying on so, I can't get any work done. 12 carry out or through. perform, effect, implement, complete, execute, accomplish, continue, conclude: Henry is carrying out his father's wishes according to the terms of his will.
CARVE|0|v. 1 hew, cut, sculpt, sculpture, shape, chisel, model, fashion, engrave, incise, grave, whittle, chip: The bust is carved out of solid marble. 2 Often, carve up or out. divide (up), cut (up), subdivide, apportion, parcel out, allot, partition: The gang-leaders carved up the territory, and the killings stopped for a while.
CASTE|0|n. (social) class, rank, order, level, stratum, standing, position, station, status, estate: The women of her caste practised suttee.
CATCH|0|v. 1 capture, seize, apprehend, take or get (hold of), grab, grip, grasp, take captive, hold, arrest, take prisoner, Colloq nab, pinch, collar, Brit nick: The police caught him when he returned to the scene of the crime. 2 trap, ensnare, entrap, snare, net, bag, hook, round up, corral: We caught three trout this morning. I caught all the horses that had broken through the fence. 3 take, get on or on to, board: You can catch the London train at Aylesbury. 4 surprise, discover, find: They fired him after catching him with his hand in the till. 5 be seized or taken hold of by or with, come down with, be afflicted by or with, contract, get, suffer from: You'll catch a cold if you don't wear a hat. 6 strike, hit, deliver, fetch, box: She caught him a great blow on the ear and he went down. 7 tangle, become entangled or stuck or trapped or hooked: His foot caught in the stirrup when he fell, and he was dragged along. 8 restrain, stop, check, curb: She caught herself before telling the police where the thief was hiding. 9 intercept, grab, seize, snatch: He caught the ball before it touched the ground. 10 understand, see, comprehend, grasp, apprehend, fathom, perceive, discern, follow, take in, gather, Colloq figure out, get, catch on (to), get the drift (of), Brit twig: I didn't quite catch what you said - please can you repeat it? 11 captivate, charm, bewitch, enchant, fascinate, seduce, attract, entice, allure: She knows how to use her charms to catch a man. 12 attract, draw: A very slight movement caught my eye. 13 catch on. a understand, grasp, see (through), comprehend, get (it), Brit twig: I didn't catch on to what she planned to do it till it was too late. The joke's on you and you still don't catch on, do you? b take hold, succeed, become popular or fashionable: Do you think the hula hoop will catch on again? 14 catch up. a absorb, involve, enthrall, immerse: He was completely caught up in the plot of the new novel. b reach, overtake, overhaul: I finally caught up ...
CATER|0|v. 1 provision, victual; purvey, provide: We cater exclusively for housebound gourmets. 2 cater for or to. indulge, humour, serve, dance attendance on, pamper, baby, coddle, minister to, spoil, mollycoddle, cosset, pander to: She caters for him night and day. Our music group caters for all levels of ability.
CAUSE|0|n. 1 origin, occasion, source, root, genesis, agent, prime mover, well-spring: The cause of the train crash is not yet known. 2 originator, creator, producer, agent, agency: His indecision was the cause of many of our problems. 3 ground or grounds, justification, reason, basis, call, motive: You have no cause to be dissatisfied. 4 case, matter, issue, concern; movement, undertaking; ideal, belief: We appealed the miners' cause to the high court. --v. 5 make, induce: What causes hot air to rise? 6 effect, bring on or about, give rise to, result in, produce, create, precipitate, occasion, lead to, induce, generate, provoke, promote; engender; motivate, compel: Overeating causes indigestion.
CAVIL|0|n. 1 quibble, complaint: There is a minor cavil at the wording of the statutes. --v. 2 carp, quibble, split hairs, complain, find fault, censure, criticize, dispute, object, demur, Colloq nit-pick: They cavilled at a mere misspelling.
CEASE|0|v. 1 stop, end, finish, leave off, terminate, halt, discontinue, desist (from), break off (from), refrain (from): Will that noise never cease? --n. 2 without cease. ceaselessly, endlessly, unendingly, incessantly, interminably, continuously, continually, constantly, ad infinitum, infinitely, perpetually, forever, eternally, everlastingly, non-stop, unremittingly: Sisyphus was condemned to roll his burden uphill without cease.
CHAIN|0|n. 1 string, series, combination; sequence, succession, train, course, set, concatenation: He owns a chain of bookshops. Interruption of the food chain can cause serious ecological consequences. A curious chain of circumstances led me to a small hotel at Torquay in February. 2 restraint, check, trammel, control, confinement, fetter, bond, manacle, shackle, gyve: The family finally threw off the chains of poverty. --v. 3 shackle, secure, fasten, bind, gyve; confine, fetter, restrain, confine, restrict, tie, limit: Prometheus was chained to a rock as punishment for having brought fire to man. Marguerite felt chained after twenty years of marriage.
CHAIR|0|n. 1 seat, armchair, stool, bench, easy chair, rocking-chair: He offered me a chair so I sat down. 2 throne, bench, position, cathedra, authority; professorship, directorship: Sue has been offered a chair on the board. 3 chairperson, chairman, chairwoman, presiding officer, leader, moderator: The chair ruled on the matter after due consideration. --v. 4 preside, lead, govern, moderate, run, direct, manage, oversee: Katherine will chair the meetings during the absence of the president.
CHANT|0|n. 1 song, psalm, hymn, canticle, plainsong, plainchant, mantra, paean, dirge, monody, descant, carol; singsong: The war chant of the natives, echoing over the water, struck fear into their enemies. --v. 2 sing, intone, descant, carol: The choir chanted the verses of a lugubrious threnody.
CHAOS|0|n. formlessness, disorder, confusion; pandemonium, bedlam, turmoil, tumult; entropy: The universe arose out of chaos. If you want to see chaos, look in any teenager's bedroom. There was chaos as the bank closed its doors and ceased trading.
CHARM|0|n. 1 amulet, talisman, fetish, rabbit's foot, good-luck piece: She wears a charm to ward off evil spirits. 2 attractiveness, appeal, fascination, allure, magnetism, desirability, elegance, urbanity, sophistication, sophisticatedness, suavity, grace, refinement, cultivatedness, cultivation, culture, polish; magic, enchantment, spell, sorcery: To Diderot we go not for charm of style but for a store of fertile ideas. To get ahead Colin relies more on his charm than on his ability. 3 charms. beauty, attractiveness, pulchritude, prettiness, handsomeness, appeal, allure, magnetism, pull, draw: For all her charm, I would not trust her one inch. 4 like a charm. successfully, perfectly, miraculously, marvellously, extraordinarily, especially well: His appeal to their egos worked like a charm. --v. 5 influence, control, subdue, bind, put a spell on, bewitch, enchant, seduce, hypnotize, mesmerize, enthral or US enthrall, captivate, delight, fascinate, Literary enrapture: He charmed them with some tale and they gave him their money. 6 overcome, subdue, calm, soothe, allay, assuage, hypnotize, mesmerize: Music is said to have qualities capable of charming savages.
CHART|0|n. 1 sea-chart, map: According to the chart, we are fifty miles west of the Lizard. 2 map, table, tabulation, graph, diagram; blueprint: A weather chart appears on page 23. Here is a chart of the highest-yielding unit trusts. She drew up a genealogical chart of the descendants of Queen Victoria. --v. 3 plot, plan, map (out), design: He charted a course of action for the company. Have you charted the shortest route between Gibraltar and Cyprus?
CHASE|0|n. 1 hunting, hunt, pursuit: Police dogs entered the chase and the prisoner was finally caught. 2 run after, follow, pursue, track, go (out) after; court, woo: The police were chasing a man down the street. Stop chasing women and settle down. 3 chase away, off, out, etc. rout, put to flight, hound; drive away, off, out, etc.: I chased the cat away from the birdcage.
CHEAP|0|adj. 1 inexpensive, low-priced, bargain-priced, low-cost, sale-priced, cut-price, reasonable; economy, budget(-priced): He was chewing on a cheap cigar. Everything used to be a lot cheaper when I was younger. 2 economical; reduced: Eggs are cheaper by the dozen. 3 shoddy, base, shabby, tawdry, sleazy, tatty, seedy; inferior, low-grade, poor, second-rate, trashy, worthless, Brit twopenny or tuppenny; Colloq tacky, Brit tinpot, Slang US two-bit, lousy, chintzy: Those cheap pictures ruin the look of the place. 4 stingy, miserly, penurious, niggardly, penny-pinching, cheese-paring, frugal, tight, tight-fisted, Scrooge-like, skinflinty: That cheap brother of yours wouldn't give even a penny to a beggar. --adv. 5 inexpensively, cheaply, for a song, Brit for twopence or tuppence: You can buy those cheap from any street vendor. 6 cheaply, easily, reasonably, for a song, Brit for twopence or tuppence: She has sold cheap that which she holds most dear. --n. 7 on the cheap. inexpensively, reasonably, cheaply, at or below cost, for a song, Brit for twopence or tuppence; Slang for peanuts: We buy these watches on the cheap and sell them to tourists.
CHEAT|0|n. 1 swindler, deceiver, impostor, fraud, faker, fake, swindler, trickster, confidence man, con man, operator, charlatan, mountebank, rogue, shark, Colloq phoney or US also phony, US snake-oil artist: It is amazing how many cheats are out there waiting to take advantage of you. --v. 2 swindle, deceive, bilk, trick, con, take, fleece, defraud, euchre, hoax, hoodwink, Colloq con, take in, rook, flimflam, finagle, diddle, fiddle, move the goalposts, bamboozle, take for a ride; Slang rip off: His own solicitor cheated him out of his inheritance. If you paid ten pounds for that painting, you were cheated.
CHECK|0|v. 1 stop, arrest, stay, halt, obstruct, block, limit; retard, slow, brake, curb, hinder, hamper, impede, thwart: They are trying to check the spread of the disease in West Africa. 2 restrain, control, repress, stay, inhibit, contain, curb, restrict: The animal population is checked only by availability of food. 3 authenticate, verify, confirm, substantiate, validate, corroborate, check into, check out, check up on: Please check his story to make sure he's not lying. 4 enquire about or after or into, check into, check (up) on, examine, investigate, inspect, make sure of, verify, monitor, test, study, scrutinize: You'd best check the temperature in the kiln. 5 correspond, coincide, agree, jibe, tally, conform, check out, fit, mesh; compare: His alibi doesn't check with the witness's statement. 6 check in. arrive, report: We check in for work at 0800. 7 check in or into. register, sign in or on, enrol, log in: We checked into the hotel. 8 check into. investigate, check out, check up on, verify, check: The detective checked into the backgrounds of all applicants. 9 check off. tick (off), mark, check: Check off the names in red. 10 check out. a depart, leave; go: He checked out of the hotel and took a taxi to the airport. b investigate, research, explore, enquire into, look into or at or over, scrutinize, examine, inspect, probe, survey, check up on, check, check into, check over: You had best check out her references before hiring her. c pass, pass muster or scrutiny, meet approval, be verified, check: According to our records, his story checks out. d Slang cash in one's checks or chips, kick the bucket, croak: Sam checked out last week - heart attack, I think. 11 check over or out. review, verify, authenticate, check: Please check over my figures before I submit them to the accountant. 12 check up (on). a investigate, do research, probe, explore, check: I don't know her name, but I'll check up and let you know. b determine, discover, find out, look into, check: I want...
CHEER|0|n. 1 disposition, frame of mind, spirit: They were of good cheer, considering their predicament. 2 cheerfulness, gladness, mirth, joy, gaiety, blitheness, happiness, buoyancy, light-heartedness, merrymaking: There wasn't much cheer at the pub when we learnt of what had befallen poor Grover. 3 comfort, solace, encouragement, consolation: She brought in a little breath of cheer from the outside world. 4 shout, cry, hurrah, rah, huzzah, hurray or hooray: Three cheers for Penelope! --v. 5 comfort, console, solace, encourage, inspirit, warm, Colloq buck up: Your friendly note cheered me considerably. 6 gladden, enliven, cheer up, hearten, buoy up, brighten, elate, brighten, uplift, lift up: Let thy heart cheer thee in the days of thy youth. 7 applaud, shout, hurrah, clap, yell; Colloq Brit and Australian and New Zealand barrack for: The crowd cheered for five minutes when Mr Flews stood to speak.
CHEST|0|n. 1 box, coffer, trunk, strongbox, caddy, casket, case: It took four men to carry the chest outside, where we could open it. Martha kept her jewels in a small chest on the dresser. 2 breast; thorax: The wrestler was pounding his chest and shouting 'I am the greatest!'
CHIEF|0|n. 1 head, leader, principal, superior, supervisor, superintendent, manager, overseer, captain, master, ringleader, chieftain, Dialect himself, Colloq boss, bossman, Brit governor, gov., supremo, US man, kingpin, (head or chief) honcho, number one, numero uno, headman, big White Chief, big Chief, Great White Father, big Daddy, super; Slang big cheese, Brit gaffer, Chiefly US Mr Big: You'd best ask the chief for permission to fly to Rome. --adj. 2 head, leading, ranking, superior, supreme, foremost, premier, first, greatest, outstanding: Terry is your chief competition for the singles trophy. 3 principal, most important, essential, key, paramount, (first and) foremost, primary, prime, main: The chief reason I came was to see you. Here is a list of the chief crimes committed in the area last year.
CHILD|0|n. 1 offspring, descendant, son or daughter, little one, youngster, Formal progeny, issue, Colloq kid, nipper, Slang Brit sprog: How many children do you have? 2 foetus, newborn, neonate, infant, baby, babe, toddler, boy or girl, lad or lass, stripling, youngster, youth, juvenile, adolescent, teenager, young man or woman, young gentleman or lady, Chiefly Scots laddie or lassie: No children were born in the village for five years. These miscreants are mere children, who should not be punished as adults.
CHILL|0|n. 1 coldness, cold, coolness, sharpness, nip: We put on our jackets to ward off the chill of the evening. 2 cold, flu, influenza, (la or the) grippe, ague, Technical coryza, Colloq (the) sniffles, sneezles and wheezles: Take off those wet clothes before you catch a chill. 3 coolness, iciness, frigidity, aloofness; unfriendliness, hostility: Mrs Marlow felt the chill in the stare of her husband's ex-wife. --adj. 4 cold, cool, numbing, chilling, chilly, raw, penetrating, icy, frigid, wintry, frosty, arctic, polar, glacial: A chill easterly wind made me shiver. 5 shivering, chilled (through), numb, numbed, numbing, benumbed: She kissed me with a lip more chill than stone. 6 cold, cold-blooded, aloof, indifferent, insensitive, unemotional, unsympathetic; chilly: The prison commandant viewed the corpses with chill detachment. --v. 7 cool, freeze, refrigerate, ice: The fruit tastes better if it has been chilled. 8 dampen, dispirit, depress, deject, dishearten, distress: The news of mother's illness chilled us all.
CHIME|0|n. 1 bell, set of bells, carillon, ring, peal: Our church has a full chime of eight bells. 2 ringing, peal, chiming, tolling, tintinnabulation, clanging, ding-dong, striking; tinkle, jingle, jangle: We could hear the chimes of Big Ben from our hotel room. --v. 3 ring, peal, toll, sound, tintinnabulate, clang, strike: The clock chimed on the hour. 4 mark, denote, indicate, announce: The carillon chimed the hour at noon. 5 chime in. a join in, blend, harmonize: When singing this round, chime in at the third bar. b interrupt, intercede, intrude, interfere, break in, Colloq chip in; Slang butt in: I was about to speak when he chimed in with some silly remark.
CHINK|0|n. fissure, rift, crack, crevice, gap, opening, cleft, slit, aperture, cranny: We could see daylight through a chink in the fence.
CHIRP|0|v. 1 tweet, peep, twitter, chirrup, warble, trill, cheep, chitter, chirr, pipe: I was awakened by the birds, chirping away in the forest. --n. 2 tweet, peep, twitter, chirrup, warble, trill, cheep, chitter, chirr: The canary gave two chirps and jumped onto its perch.
CHOKE|0|v. 1 suffocate, asphyxiate, smother, stifle, strangle, throttle, garrotte or garrote or garotte, burke: He choked his elderly victims, then stole their money. 2 stop, fill (up), block (up), obstruct, congest, clog, dam (up), constrict: The channel is completely choked with weeds. 3 Also, choke off. smother, suppress, stifle, prohibit, frustrate, deny, obviate, cut off, stop, put a stop to; dissuade, discourage: His policies choked off any chance for innovation. 4 choke back or down. suppress, repress, stifle, restrain: He choked back the tears when he saw the gravestone.
CHUTE|0|n. 1 waterfall, rapid: The canoe skimmed down the chute with lightning speed. 2 slide, shaft, channel, ramp, runway, trough, incline: The parcels come down this chute and you have to sort them by postcode.
CIVIL|0|adj. 1 civilian, non-military, lay, laic, laical, secular: There is a distinction between civil law and canon law. 2 domestic, internal; public: The economic conditions have led to civil strife. 3 polite, courteous, respectful, well-mannered, proper, civilized, cordial, formal, courtly, urbane, polished, refined: They are civil enough, but I always have the feeling they really despise tourists.
CLAIM|0|n. 1 demand, assertion, request, requisition, petition, application; requirement: As far as the land is concerned, his claim has been denied. 2 right(s), call, title: What possible claim could the Miss Dashwoods have on his generosity? --v. 3 demand, seek, ask or call (for), exact, insist (on or upon), require, command, be entitled to: She has every right to claim a share in the estate. 4 declare, assert, allege, state, put or set forth, affirm, contend, maintain: These measurements lack the degree of accuracy claimed for them. She claims that she was the first person to ring the police.
CLAMP|0|n. 1 clasp, vice, brace, clip, fastener: Use a clamp to hold the pieces together till the glue dries. --v. 2 fasten (together), clip (together), bracket, make fast, clasp: You should clamp the planks together and plane the edges of both.
CLASH|0|n. 1 crash, clang, clank, clangour: The concerto ends with a clash of cymbals. 2 collision, smash, (hostile) encounter, conflict, engagement, fight, battle, disagreement, difference, argument, dispute, altercation, quarrel, squabble: He has witnessed many a clash between the prime minister and parliament. --v. 3 conflict, fight, battle, disagree, differ, argue, dispute, quarrel, squabble, feud, wrangle, cross swords: My brother and I always clash on the question of who should pay our father's hospital bills. 4 conflict, disharmonize, jar, be at odds or out of keeping: The pink of the blouse and the fuchsia of the skirt clash badly.
CLASP|0|n. 1 fastener, fastening, hook, catch, clip, pin, brooch: The ends were fastened together with a diamond clasp. 2 embrace, hug, hold, grasp, grip: He held her tight in his clasp. --v. 3 fasten, secure, close, hold, hook, clip, pin, clamp: The robe was clasped by an emerald pin. 4 hold, embrace, take hold of, hug, enclose, envelop: The beggar clasped my hand, his eyes seeking mine in piteous supplication. 5 grab, grasp, seize, clutch, grip: They clasped hands in friendship.
CLASS|0|n. 1 rank, grade, level, order, stratum; caste, lineage, birth, pedigree, stock, extraction, descent: He was born in the l940s into a family of the middle class. 2 category, division, classification, group, genre, league, realm, domain; kind, sort, type: As a dancer, she in a class by herself. 3 excellence, merit, refinement, elegance, prestige, importance, taste, discernment, distinction, bearing, presence, savoir faire, savoir vivre, breeding: He may be a good drinking companion, but he has no class whatsoever. 4 year, form, US grade: We were in the same class at school. --v. 5 classify, group, arrange, assort, type, categorize, rank, grade, rate, order: They are classed as self-employed for these purposes.
CLEAN|0|adj. 1 pure, undefiled, unsullied, unmixed, unadulterated, uncontaminated, unpolluted, uninfected, unspoiled or unspoilt, sanitary, disinfected; antiseptic, decontaminated, purified, sterile: The laboratory reports that our well water is absolutely clean. You must use a clean bandage. 2 unsoiled, untainted, unstained; unsullied; cleansed, cleanly, (freshly) laundered or washed, scrubbed; spotless, immaculate: She puts on clean underwear every day in case she's involved in an accident. 3 clean-cut, neat, simple, definite, uncomplicated, smooth, even, straight, trim, tidy: The edges of the fracture are clean and will mend quickly. 4 innocent, blameless, inoffensive, respectable; decent, chaste, pure, honourable, good, undefiled, virtuous, moral: The suspect was completely clean - he was out of town at the time of the robbery. 5 non-radioactive: They say they've produced a clean bomb, but I don't believe it. 6 unarmed, weaponless: Frisk that suspect and make sure he's clean. --adv. 7 completely, entirely, thoroughly, fully, totally, wholly, altogether, quite, utterly, absolutely: Geoff's clean out of his mind if he believes that. With one blow he cut the orange clean through. 8 come clean. confess, acknowledge, make a clean breast, admit, make a revelation, reveal, Colloq own up, spill the beans; US dialect fess up; Slang sing: In the end he saw that he was trapped and decided to come clean. --v. 9 cleanse, wash, lave, (take a) shower, sponge, mop, scrub, scour, sweep, dust, vacuum, polish, launder, dry-clean, Brit hoover; tidy, neaten, do up, straighten up or out, unclutter; Brit bath; US and Canadian bathe: When we cleaned the urn, we could read the inscription. I have told Richard a thousand times to clean his room. 10 clean out. a exhaust, deplete: The gambler cleaned her out of every penny she had in the world. b empty, leave bare, clear out, evacuate: We must clean out the larder before it can be painted. 11 clean up. a clean, cleanse, wash, (take a) shower, Brit...
CLEAR|0|adj. 1 unclouded, cloudless, sunny, fair, sunlit, fine: On a clear day, you can see the lighthouse several miles away. 2 transparent, limpid, crystalline; translucent, uncloudy, unclouded, pellucid: The water was clear enough to see the bottom. 3 bright, lustrous, shining, shiny, sparkling, Formal nitid: We painted the bathroom a lovely clear blue. 4 bright, fresh, unblemished, unscarred: She has a lovely clear complexion. 5 distinct, sharp, well-defined, definite; legible, readable; acute, vivid: The notes were written in a large clear hand. 6 understandable, intelligible, perspicuous, lucid, comprehensible, apprehensible, discernible, plain, obvious, unambiguous, unequivocal, explicit, definite, unmistakable, indisputable, undisputed, unquestionable, incontrovertible: He has made himself very clear on that point. 7 distinct, unclouded, unconfused, explicit, plain, definite, clear-cut, palpable: I have a clear recollection of her words. 8 evident, plain, obvious, patent, manifest, apparent: It became clear that someone was trying to compromise her. 9 perceptive, acute, sensitive, perspicacious, discerning, keen: It was only his clear vision of the situation that saved us all. 10 certain, sure, convinced, confident, positive, determined, definite, assured: I am not clear that the subject was a good one. 11 pure, unwavering, well-defined, distinct, clarion, bell-like: We heard father's clear voice calling from below. 12 pure, guileless, unsophisticated, innocent, blameless, faultless; not guilty: I still cannot look her in the eye with a clear conscience. 13 unencumbered, free, net: In our first year we made a clear profit of 25 per cent. 14 unlimited, unqualified, unquestioned, unquestionable, absolute, complete, entire; pure, sheer, perfect: You must allow three clear days for the ascent. 15 disengaged, disentangled, unentangled, free, freed, rid, quit, loose, unencumbered, released: When the line is clear of any obstruction, hoist sail and let's be off. 16 open, u...
CLICH|0|n. stereotype, bromide, trite saying, old saw or maxim, truism, platitude, commonplace, banality, Colloq chestnut: The report was full of clich÷s and convinced no one.
CLIFF|0|n. precipice, bluff, escarpment, scarp, crag, rock-face, cuesta, scar or Scots scaur: The commandos are trained to scale a 100-foot cliff.
CLIMB|0|v. 1 Also, climb up. mount, ascend, go up, scale, shin (up), clamber up, US shinny (up): In one of the games we had to climb a greased pole. Two Japanese teams have climbed Mount Everest. 2 creep, trail, twine; grow: The ivy has climbed all over the garden wall. 3 rise, arise, ascend, go up, mount; advance: Watch the smoke climb into the sky. 4 climb along. creep, edge, clamber, crawl, inch: The cat burglar climbed along the ledge till he reached the window. 5 climb down. a descend, go down: We shall need a rope to climb down from here. b Usually, climb down from. retreat (from), withdraw (from), back away (from), give up, abandon, renounce: He has climbed down from his earlier position regarding women in the priesthood. --n. 6 grade, incline, route, pitch; ascent; descent: It was a steep climb to Camp Four.
CLING|0|v. 1 stick, adhere, attach, fasten, fix: The detectives found that one of the victim's hairs had clung to the suspect's lapel. 2 favour, be or remain devoted or attached to, embrace, hang on to, retain, keep, cherish: He still clung to his old-fashioned notions of honour. 3 cling together or to one another. embrace, hug, cleave to one another, clasp one another, clutch one another, hold (fast) to one another, grasp one another: The children clung together in the darkness.
CLOAK|0|n. 1 mantle, cape, robe, wrap, poncho; coat, overcoat: She pulled her cloak around her in the chill night air. 2 mantle, concealment, cover, screen, shroud, veil: He stole away under the cloak of darkness. --v. 3 conceal, hide, mask, screen, veil, shroud, cover up; disguise: All of the spies' activities were cloaked in secrecy.
CLOSE|0|v. 1 shut, close up, seal; close off, lock, padlock, secure, fasten: I closed my eyes. Please close the door behind you. 2 make inaccessible, shut, Chiefly US place off limits: The Bodleian Library will be closed for a week. 3 conclude, end, finish, complete, bring to a close or end, terminate, climax, Colloq wind up: A brilliant flourish closes the first movement of the symphony. 4 conclude, sign, seal, make, settle, clinch, agree, arrange, work out, establish: Union and management closed a deal, and the strike was called off. 5 Also, close down. discontinue, terminate, stop, suspend, shut down, go out of business, cease operations, close (up), Colloq wind up, shut up shop, put up the shutters: Competition from the supermarket forced the greengrocer to close down. 6 Also, close off. seal, make inaccessible, shut (off), obstruct, obturate: This wing of the museum has been closed off temporarily. 7 close one's eyes to. ignore, overlook, disregard: You have always closed your eyes to his faults. 8 close up. a close, shut (up), lock up, close (down): It's time to close up for the night. b close, come or draw or bring together, unite, join; connect: We closed up ranks and stood at attention. --adj. 9 near; adjacent, proximate, proximal: He claims to have had a close encounter with an extraterrestrial. There certainly is a close resemblance between Kathy and her daughter. 10 closed, shut (up), fixed, fast, secure, tight: The hostages spent a month in close confinement. 11 dense, compact, tight, cramped, compressed, tiny, minuscule, minute: I could hardly read the close writing on the matchbox. 12 stuffy, musty, stale, fusty, confining, oppressive, airless, unventilated, confined, stifling, suffocating: They locked me in a room that was so close I could hardly breathe. 13 nearly equal or even, close-matched, neck and neck, tight: It was a close race, but Flanagan won by a hair. 14 careful, assiduous, precise, detailed, concentrated, strict, rigorous, minute, searching, at...
CLOTH|0|n. 1 fabric, material, textile, Chiefly Brit stuff: The curtains are made of cloth, not plastic. 2 the cloth. the clergy, the (religious) ministry, the priesthood: He is a man of the cloth.
CLUMP|0|n. 1 lump, mass, clod, chunk, hunk, wad, gob, Colloq glob: As the soup cooled, clumps of fat formed on its surface. 2 bunch, cluster; thicket, copse; wood, Chiefly Brit spinney: The deer disappeared into a clump of trees. That clump will provide good cover for us. --v. 3 lump, mass, heap, collect, gather, bunch, pile: She wore her hair clumped on top her head.
COACH|0|n. 1 carriage, bus, omnibus, motor coach: The sightseeing coach broke down near Exeter. 2 tutor, trainer, instructor, teacher, mentor, Brit crammer: Her voice coach says she's not yet ready for grand opera. --v. 3 tutor, train, instruct, guide, direct, drill, prepare, prompt, school, exercise, Brit cram: Her lawyers have coached her in what to say in court.
COAST|0|n. 1 seaside, seashore, shore, sea-coast, strand, beach, littoral, coastline, seaboard: Be careful of rocks if you sail near the coast. --v. 2 glide, skim, slide, sail: The children coasted down the hill on the toboggan.
COMIC|0|adj. 1 funny, droll, comical, humorous, hilarious, side-splitting, mirthful, jocose, jocular, witty, waggish, clever, facetious, amusing: Barry's comic routines have made him a popular performer for years. --n. 2 See comedian.
CORPS|0|n. body of men or women, troop, cadre, unit, detachment, cohort, division, battalion, brigade, platoon, squad, column, squadron: We delivered supplies to the medical corps.
COUCH|0|n. 1 sofa, settee, settle, divan, love-seat, chaise (longue); day-bed; téte-å-téte, vis-å-vis, siamoise; US Davenport: Come and sit by me on the couch. --v. 2 embed, frame, style, express, phrase: Her warning was couched in friendly words.
COUNT|0|v. 1 count up or off, enumerate, number, calculate, add up, total, reckon, compute, tally, figure up, quantify, Colloq figure out: Maddie counted the number of pencils in the box. 2 include, consider, regard, deem, judge, look on or upon: You can count me among those who favour the idea. 3 count on or upon. rely on or upon, depend on or upon, be sure of, trust, bank on, be confident of, Chiefly Brit or US dialect reckon on or upon, Chiefly US figure on or upon: I knew I could count on Moira to do the right thing.
COVER|0|v. 1 protect, shelter, shield, screen; guard, defend, command: The guns covered the approaches to the town. 2 Also, cover up or over. conceal, hide, bury, mask, shroud, obscure; dissemble; enclose, envelop: I was unable to cover my embarrassment. Her face was covered by the hood of the cloak. 3 overlie, spread over, overspread, lie on, layer, coat, blanket: Oil covers the surface of the lake. 4 wrap, swaddle: Mother covered us with warm blankets. 5 dress, clothe, garb, attire, robe, sheathe: She was covered in silk from neck to ankle. 6 extend or stretch over, occupy, engulf, inundate, submerge: A lake has covered the original site of Abu Simbel. 7 include, comprehend, provide for, comprise, extend over, contain, embody, incorporate, account for, take into account, take in, deal with: This report covers our activities over the past year. 8 act, take responsibility or charge, stand or sit in, substitute, take over, run things, double: Go and get some coffee - I'll cover for you. 9 traverse, complete, pass or travel over, travel, cross: With frequent stops, we could not cover more than 50 miles a day. 10 compensate for, defray, be enough or sufficient for, counter, offset, counterbalance, make up for, insure or protect against: The policy covers losses of up to a million. --n. 11 lid, top, cap, covering: I can't find the cover for this pot. 12 binding, boards, wrapper, dust-jacket, jacket: You can't tell a book by its cover. 13 Often, covers. blanket, quilt, eiderdown, duvet, bedclothes, bedding, (bed) linen; coverlet, counterpane; US comforter: I crept into bed and pulled the covers over my head. 14 shelter, protection, concealment, hiding-place, hide-out, retreat, refuge; hide, US and Canadian blind; Colloq Brit hidey-hole: We tried to find some sort of cover till the sun went down. 15 cloak, screen, disguise, concealment, pretence, front, camouflage, smokescreen, cover-up, mask, covering: His bluster and bullying were only a cover for his cowardice.
CRAFT|0|n. 1 skill, ability, artisanship, handiwork, ingenuity, skilfulness, art, talent, dexterity, cleverness, mastery, expertness, expertise, flair, genius , Colloq know-how: Considerable craft is required to make that kind of jewellery. 2 deceit, guile, cunning, fraud, trickery, wiliness, foxiness, artfulness, craftiness, duplicity: He exhibits that crooked wisdom called craft. 3 trade, occupation, calling, vocation, m÷tier; profession: He was a member of one of the medieval craft guilds. 4 vessel, ship, boat; hovercraft; aircraft, aeroplane, plane; spaceship, spacecraft, rocket: One day there will be at least as many craft in space as there now are in the air. --v. 5 make, fashion, fabricate: She crafted the figures out of solid wood.
CRANK|0|n. 1 eccentric, character, oddity, Colloq nut; Slang Brit nutter, nutcase: Pay no attention to Jason, he's just a crank. 2 monomaniac, zealot, fanatic: The restaurant is patronized mainly by health-food cranks.
CRASH|0|v. 1 fall, topple: The vase crashed onto the stone floor. 2 force, drive, run, smash: He crashed the car into a wall. 3 bang, boom, explode: The thunder crashed all around us. --n. 4 boom, bang, smash, explosion, blast: We heard a great crash as the building collapsed. 5 disaster, collapse, failure: The stock-market crash has had a devastating effect.
CRAWL|0|v. 1 creep, worm, wriggle, wiggle, squirm; edge: A spider is crawling on your collar. 2 inch, creep, drag: For a solid hour the cars just crawled along at a snail's pace. 3 cower, cringe, grovel, toady, fawn: Don't worry, he'll soon come crawling, begging you to take him back. 4 teem, abound, swarm, be overrun or swamped: The scene of the crime crawled with police.
CREED|0|n. tenet, dogma, doctrine, credo, teaching, principles, belief, set of beliefs: She adheres to the creed of the Golden Rule.
CREEK|0|n. 1 Brit inlet, bay, cove, harbour: Overnight we moored in a little creek, sheltered from the sea. 2 US and Canadian stream, streamlet, brook, rivulet, rill, runnel, run, burn: We used to fish in the creek behind the house.
CREEP|0|v. 1 crawl, slither, inch, squirm, wriggle, wiggle: A tiny lizard was creeping up the wall. 2 crawl, drag: The hours creep by slowly when you have nothing to do. 3 steal, sneak; slink, skulk, tiptoe, Colloq pussyfoot: The thief must have crept in through the kitchen window. Someone is creeping about out there in the dark.
CREST|0|n. 1 top, summit, pinnacle, peak, head, ridge: The surfers rode in on the crest of a wave. 2 seal, device, figure, badge, emblem, insigne, symbol, design: The school crest shows an inkpot and a scroll. --v. 3 top, crown, surmount, cap: The ancient walls were crested with ivy. 4 culminate, reach, top, US top out: The flood-waters crested at nine feet.
CRIME|0|n. offence, violation, misdeed, wrong; felony, misdemeanour; lawlessness: The number of crimes of violence is increasing.
CRISP|0|adj. 1 brittle, crunchy, friable, breakable, crumbly, frangible: Keep the biscuits crisp in this special jar. 2 curly, crispy, crinkly, frizzy, frizzled: His hair is brown and crisp, just like his father's. 3 US chip: I'll bet you can't eat just one potato crisp.
CROSS|0|n. 1 crucifix, rood: In ancient times, it was common to execute certain criminals by nailing them to a cross. 2 hybrid, cross-breed, mongrel; blend, combination: This fruit is a cross between a plum and a pear. --v. 3 cross off or out. strike out, erase, cancel, rub out, delete, wipe out: After that remark, I'm crossing you off my list. 4 meet, intersect, join: The roads cross further on. 5 cross over, go across, pass over, span, traverse: The bridge crosses the river here. --adj. 6 peevish, irritated, annoyed, piqued, irritable, testy, snappish, irascible, surly, choleric, splenetic, grouchy, huffish or huffy, pettish, cranky, grumpy, touchy, moody, fractious, vexed, curmudgeonly, petulant, waspish, querulous, cantankerous, crusty, short-tempered, on a short fuse, Colloq crotchety, Slang Brit shirty: He's cross because he has a headache. 7 annoyed, irritated, angry, irate, furious: I was very cross that you took the car without permission.
CROWD|0|n. 1 throng, multitude, horde, swarm, mass, press, flood, mob, flock, pack: A huge crowd descended on the village square. 2 company, set, circle, lot, bunch, group, coterie, clique, claque, faction: She doesn't associate with our crowd any longer. --v. 3 throng, swarm, herd, pour, pile, press, cluster, gather, get together, flood, flock, assemble, congregate: People crowded into the stadium. 4 push, press, drive, shove, thrust, force, load, pack, cram, jam, corral: The police crowded the hooligans into vans. 5 compress, squeeze, pack, jam, cram, collect; stuff: We were so crowded in the cabin we could hardly breathe.
CROWN|0|n. 1 coronet, diadem, wreath, fillet, circlet, tiara: The princess wore a golden crown set with jewels. 2 sovereignty, rule, dominion, authority, government, realm, rulership, jurisdiction: They discovered many lands and annexed them to the Crown. 3 monarch, ruler, sovereign, potentate; king, queen, emperor, empress, His or Her Majesty, His or Her Highness: The Crown has very little real power these days. --v. 4 enthrone, Colloq US coronate: He was crowned on the death of his father. 5 cap, top, surmount, culminate, climax, consummate, fulfil, reward: All her years of practising the violin were finally crowned with success.
CRUDE|0|adj. 1 unrefined, raw, natural, original, unprocessed: Those are the prices of crude oil, not the petrol used in cars. 2 rough, unpolished, rudimentary, immature, undeveloped, primitive, unrefined, unfinished: At this stage, she has only a crude idea of the design. 3 rough, coarse, rude, unrefined, uncouth, crass, gross, rustic, uncivil: Don't you despise his crude manners? 4 blunt, brusque, unsophisticated, inconsiderate, tasteless, indelicate, offensive, improper, vulgar: How crude of him to ask her how long since her husband had 'croaked'!
CRUEL|0|adj. 1 merciless, pitiless, hard-hearted, harsh, stony-hearted, heartless, unsparing, callous, beastly, cold-blooded, ruthless, unkind, hard: It was cruel of you to refuse to help. 2 ferocious, inhuman, barbaric, barbarous, brutal, savage, bloodthirsty, vicious, sadistic, fiendish, diabolical, hellish, atrocious, Neronian or Neronic or Neroic: His captors subjected him to the cruellest tortures.
CRUMB|0|n. fragment, morsel, bite, scrap, particle, shred, snippet, sliver, bit, speck, scintilla, mote, molecule, atom: There isn't a crumb of food in the house.
CRYPT|0|n. tomb, vault, mausoleum, sepulchre, grave, catacomb; cellar, basement: He is buried in the crypt of St Paul's.
CURSE|0|n. 1 malediction, imprecation, denunciation, damnation, execration, oath: He heaped curses on all those who opposed him. 2 evil, bane, misfortune, affliction, torment, harm, scourge, cross to bear: The curse of our generation is that so few of us deeply believe anything. 3 profanity, oath, blasphemy, obscenity, bad language, dirty word, swear-word, curse-word: A stream of curses issued from the bathroom when Joe cut himself shaving. --v. 4 damn, execrate, blast, denounce, anathematize, excommunicate: He was cursed by the priests and forbidden ever to enter a temple again. 5 swear at, blaspheme at: The muleteer was cursing his team. 6 burden, saddle, weigh down, handicap: She was cursed with bad eyesight and had to wear thick glasses.
CYCLE|0|n. 1 round, rotation, circle, course; series, sequence, run, succession, pattern: We must learn to break the continuous cycles of war and peace. --v. 2 recur, return, rotate, recycle, circle: The water from the fountain is cycled back to the reservoir.
DAILY|0|adj. 1 diurnal, circadian, everyday, quotidian: The daily papers reported nothing about the fire. 2 ordinary, common, commonplace, everyday, routine, regular: Her trip to the market has become a daily occurrence. --adv. 3 constantly, always, habitually, day after day, regularly, every day, continually, continuously: The trains run daily between here and London.
DANCE|0|v. 1 cavort, gambol, caper, skip, leap, romp, trip the light fantastic (toe), US cut a rug, sashay, Colloq bop, hoof it: We danced for joy when we heard the news. Would you care to dance? --n. 2 ball, social, dancing party, th÷ dansant, US tea dance, promenade, Colloq shindig or shindy, hop, bop, US and Canadian prom: I have invited her to the dance on Saturday evening.
DANDY|0|n. 1 fop, coxcomb, (gay) blade, beau, gallant, lady-killer, ladies' or lady's man, rake, Colloq swell, clothes-horse, Brit toff, blood, US dude: He was a great dandy, and spent hours dressing every day. --adj. 2 fine, splendid, first-rate, great, marvellous, neat, spectacular: Penny's father bought her a dandy new car.
DAUNT|0|v. intimidate, cow, discourage, dishearten, dispirit, unnerve, shake, upset, disconcert, discomfit, put off, awe, overawe, appal, alarm, threaten, frighten, terrify, scare, terrorize: He was daunted by the prospect of facing the entire council.
DEATH|0|n. 1 demise, decease, passing, dying, end: She was overcome with grief at the news of his death. 2 end, termination, cessation, expiration, expiry: Nobody mourned the death of the bill in the lower house. 3 end, finish, termination; extinction, destruction, extermination, annihilation, eradication, obliteration, eradication, extirpation, liquidation, ruin, downfall, undoing: The invasion marked the death of the Roman Empire.
DECAY|0|v. 1 a decline, wane, ebb, dwindle, diminish, decrease: The magnetic field rapidly decays when the power is removed. b decline, waste away, atrophy, weaken, wither, degenerate, deteriorate, disintegrate; crumble: Her great beauty decayed quickly. 2 rot, decompose, moulder, putrefy, spoil; turn, go bad, go off: The flesh has decayed and only a skeleton remains. --n. 3 decline, weakening, failing, fading, deterioration, decadence, degeneration, wasting, atrophy, dilapidation, disintegration, collapse; downfall: The buildings were in an advanced state of decay. 4 rot, rotting, decomposition, mould, putrefaction, mortification: The decay has weakened the timbers supporting the bridge.
DEFER|0|v. put off, postpone, delay, shelve, lay or put aside, adjourn, US table; Colloq Brit kick into touch: The judge has deferred his decision.
DEIGN|0|v. condescend, stoop, vouchsafe, concede; yield, agree: Lord Worthington deigned to say good morning to us.
DEITY|0|n. god, goddess, Supreme Being, creator, demiurge: Deities in various religions are represented as men, women, or animals.
DELAY|0|v. 1 postpone, put off or aside, defer, temporize, suspend, shelve, hold off or up (on), put on hold, hold in abeyance, put or keep in a holding pattern, pigeon-hole, put on ice, put in or into the deep-freeze, Colloq put on the back burner, Brit kick into touch, US hold off or up (on), table: We shall delay our decision till next month. 2 hold up or back, detain, impede, hinder, retard, keep, bog down, set back, slow (up or down); stop, arrest, halt, check; obstruct: Delivery of the mail has been delayed by the strike. We were delayed by traffic. 3 loiter, procrastinate, hesitate, poke or drag (along), tarry, wait, lag (behind), dawdle, hang back, stall, linger, dally, mark time, potter or US putter; vacillate; Colloq dilly-dally, shilly-shally, drag one's feet: Stop delaying and get to work. --n. 4 postponement, deferral, deferment, wait, hold-up; set-back: There will be a ten-day delay in paying the rent. 5 lull, interlude, hiatus, interruption, gap, interval, lacuna, stop, stoppage, wait, waiting, hold-up, suspension: After an hour's delay, service was resumed. 6 tarrying, loitering, dawdling, Colloq dilly-dallying, shilly-shallying: There should be no further delay in shipping the order.
DEMON|0|n. 1 devil, evil spirit, fiend, cacodemon or cacodaemon; monster, ghoul, ogre, harpy, vampire: Medieval demons are generally depicted as having horns, hoofs, and tails. 2 fanatic, fiend, enthusiast, addict, Colloq freak: He's a real speed demon when he gets onto the motorway.
DENSE|0|adj. 1 compact, thick, compressed, condensed, close, solid, heavy, impenetrable: The fox escaped into a dense thicket. 2 crowded, packed, tight, impenetrable, impassable: There was a dense crowd blocking the exit. 3 stupid, slow, slow-witted, thickheaded, dull, thick-witted, obtuse, stolid, dim, dim-witted, foolish, Colloq thick, dumb: He may be a gifted artist but he is dense when it comes to money matters.
DEPTH|0|n. 1 deepness, extent, measure, profundity, profoundness: The depth of the cavern was at least three miles. 2 profundity, profoundness, abstruseness, obscurity, reconditeness, complexity, intricacy: There is great depth of meaning in many proverbs. 3 profundity, wisdom, sagacity, sageness, understanding, perception, astuteness, perspicacity, perspicaciousness, insight, intuition, acumen, penetration: One would scarcely characterize Mickey Mouse as possessed of great depth. 4 intensity, profundity, strength; vividness, brilliance, brilliancy, brightness, richness: It is hard for me to express the depth of my feeling for you. The depth of colour is much better in this picture. 5 depths. deep(s), abyss, abysm, chasm, bowels of the earth, (bottomless) pit, nethermost reaches or regions, nadir: As we descended into the depths the temperature increased. She is in the depths of despair and needs your moral support. 6 in depth. thoroughly, comprehensively, in detail, profoundly, deeply, extensively, intensively, concentratedly, probingly: The specialists have looked into the problem in depth and have no answer yet.
DETER|0|v. dissuade, discourage, inhibit, intimidate, daunt, frighten off or from or away, scare off or from; prevent, stop, obstruct, check, hinder, impede: I was deterred from entering by three large dogs. Regular spraying of plants helps to deter aphid infestation.
DEVIL|0|n. 1 Satan, Lucifer, Mephistopheles, Beelzebub, Asmodeus, Abaddon, Apollyon, Belial, Lord of the Flies, prince of darkness, spirit of evil, evil spirit, cacodemon or cacodaemon, evil one, wicked one, archfiend, Fiend, deuce, Scots Clootie; Colloq Old Harry, (Old) Nick, US (Old) Scratch: In medieval times the devil was given horns, a tail, and cloven hooves. 2 brute, fiend, demon, beast, ogre, monster, rogue, scoundrel, rake, knave, rakehell, villain, ghoul, hell-hound, vampire, barbarian; witch, hell-cat, shrew, termagant, vixen, virago, ogress, harpy, hag, Xanthippe or Xantippe, crone: If you hit me again I'll phone the police, you devil! 3 fellow, person, chap, wretch, bloke, guy, beggar, unfortunate, Colloq bugger, Brit sod: The poor devil lost an arm at Gallipoli. 4 imp, scamp, rascal, fox, slyboots, sly dog, rapscallion, confidence man, trickster, Colloq operator, smoothie, smooth or slick operator, con man, con artist: The little devil has stolen our hearts. The devil wormed his way into our confidence and then made off with our money. 5 like the devil. exceedingly, extremely, excessively, violently, speedily, confoundedly, deucedly: The car was going like the devil when it hit the tree. She fought like the devil to protect the house. 6 - the devil. in heaven's name, the dickens, in the world, on God's green earth, in hell: What the devil do you think you are doing? Who the devil is she? Where the devil have you put my trousers?
DIARY|0|n. appointment book, date-book, calendar, engagement book; journal, chronicle, log, record, annal(s): According to my diary, the date we dined was the lst.
DICEY|0|n. risky, tricky, dangerous, difficult, ticklish, unpredictable, uncertain, unsure, doubtful, Colloq iffy, chancy or chancey, hairy: Asking for another pay rise could be pretty dicey, Daniel.
DINGY|0|adj. dark, dull, gloomy, dim, lacklustre, faded, discoloured, dusky, drab, dreary, dismal, cheerless, depressing, gloomy, shadowy, tenebrous, smoky, sooty, grey-brown, smudgy, grimy, dirty, soiled: He was a dingy man, in dingy clothes, who lived in a dingy house.
DIRTY|0|adj. 1 foul, unclean, befouled, soiled, begrimed, sooty, grimy, filthy, mucky, besmeared, besmirched, befouled, polluted, squalid, sullied, stained, spotted, smudged, slovenly, unwashed, bedraggled, slatternly, untidy, Slang Brit gungy, US grungy: If you think his shirt was dirty, you should have seen his body! 2 smutty, indecent, obscene, ribald, off colour, prurient, risqu÷, salacious, lewd, lascivious, salacious, pornographic, coarse, licentious, rude, blue, scabrous: His parents were shocked to hear him telling dirty jokes. 3 unfair, unscrupulous, unsporting, dishonest, mean, underhand(ed), unsportsmanlike, dishonourable, deceitful, corrupt, treacherous, perfidious, villainous, disloyal; malicious, malevolent, rotten, filthy: It was a dirty trick of Sue's to tell the teacher. 4 bad, foul, nasty, stormy, rainy, windy, blowy, blowing, squally, sloppy: We're in for some dirty weather, Mr Christian, so you'd best reduce sail. 5 bitter, resentful, angry, furious, wrathful, smouldering: She gave me a dirty look when I said anything about her sister. 6 sordid, base, mean, despicable, contemptible, ignoble, scurvy, low, low-down, ignominious, vile, nasty, infamous: That villain has done his dirty work and now we must all suffer. He's nothing but a dirty coward! --v. 7 stain, sully, befoul, soil, begrime, besmirch, pollute, muddy, smear, defile; blacken, tarnish: She refused to so much as dirty her hands to help us. Are you afraid it will dirty your reputation to be seen with me?
DODGE|0|v. 1 dart, shift, move aside, sidestep, duck, bob, weave, swerve, veer: He dodged here and there across the traffic. 2 avoid, elude, evade, escape from: He neatly dodged the punches of his opponent. 3 escape from answering, sidestep, duck, evade, hedge; quibble, tergiversate, double-talk, Colloq waffle: She dodged the questions put to her by the interviewer. --n. 4 trick, subterfuge, ploy, scheme, ruse, device, stratagem, plan, plot, machination, chicane, deception, prevarication, contrivance, evasion, Slang wheeze, racket: Crenshaw worked out a new dodge to avoid paying tax.
DONOR|0|n. giver, provider, supplier, benefactor or benefactress, contributor, supporter, backer: Blood donors receive a suitably inscribed certificate.
DOUBT|0|v. 1 disbelieve, discredit, mistrust, distrust, have misgivings (about), question, suspect: I doubted his ability to beat the record. 2 hesitate, waver, vacillate, fluctuate, scruple, be uncertain, entertain doubts, have reservations: Who ever doubted about her honesty? --n. 3 uncertainty, hesitation, misgiving, reservation(s), qualm, anxiety, worry, apprehension, disquiet, fear: He has harboured doubts about the success of the enterprise. 4 distrust, mistrust, suspicion, incredulity, scepticism, dubiousness, dubiety or dubiosity, lack of faith or conviction, irresolution: Her doubts about his intentions have evaporated. 5 in doubt. See doubtful, below.
DRAIN|0|n. 1 ditch, channel, trench, culvert, conduit, pipe, gutter, outlet, watercourse, sewer, cloaca: The storm drains have overflowed. 2 depletion, reduction, sapping, sap, exhaustion, strain, drag; outgo, outflow, withdrawal, disbursement, expenditure: The cost of the new roof was a drain on our resources. 3 down the drain. wasted, gone, thrown away, lost, Slang up the spout: All that money spent on his education went down the drain. --v. 4 draw off, tap, extract, remove, take away, withdraw, pump off or out; empty, evacuate, drink up or down, quaff, swallow, finish: After washing the lettuce, drain off the water. He drained the glass in one gulp. 5 consume, use up, exhaust, sap, deplete, bleed, strain, tax, spend; weaken, debilitate, impair, cripple: The car repairs drained my bank account. After climbing to the top of the mountain, we were completely drained. 6 seep, trickle, ooze, drip, leave, go or flow from or out of, disappear (from), ebb: Let the pus drain from the boil. The blood drained from his face when he saw her.
DRAMA|0|n. 1 play, stage play, photoplay, screenplay, (stage) show, (theatrical) piece, (stage) production; scenario: He plays only in dramas, never in musicals. 2 dramaturgy, stagecraft, theatre art(s), Thespian or histrionic art(s), acting, theatre, dramatic art: She has studied drama at RADA. 3 histrionics, dramatics, theatrics, theatricalism, play-acting: There's always a drama over who's going to wash up.
DRAPE|0|v. 1 hang, festoon, swathe, deck, array, bedeck, adorn, ornament, decorate: The coffin was draped with the national flag. --n. 2 drapery, curtain; hanging, tapestry: The drapes match neither the carpet nor the wallpaper.
DRAWN|0|adj. haggard, worn out, tired, fatigued, strained, pinched, tense, exhausted: Sidonia looks a bit drawn after her ordeal.
DREAD|0|v. 1 fear, be afraid of, apprehend, anticipate, flinch, shrink or recoil from, cringe or quail or blench or wince at, view with horror or alarm: She dreads any kind of surgery. --n. 2 fear, fright, fearfulness, trepidation, apprehension, apprehensiveness, uneasiness, anticipation, alarm, nervousness, qualm, queasiness, misgiving, dismay, worry, anxiety, consternation, concern, distress, perturbation, disquiet, aversion, horror, terror, panic, Colloq cold feet, butterflies (in the stomach), the jitters; Slang the heebie-jeebies, the willies, the collywobbles: I regarded the history exam with dread. --adj. 3 feared, dreaded, dreadful, terrifying, terrible: Before us, breathing fire, was the dread dragon of the Druids.
DREAM|0|n. 1 reverie, day-dream, delusion, fantasy, hallucination, illusion, vision, mirage, pipedream, (flight of) fancy, speculation: When I awoke I realized that my winning the lottery had just been a dream. --v. 2 imagine, fancy, conjure up, hallucinate: I dreamt I dwelt in marble halls.
DREGS|0|n.pl. 1 sediment, grounds, lees, deposit, residue, solids, remains; precipitate: Filter the coffee to remove the dregs. 2 outcasts, pariahs, rabble, riff-raff, scum, tramps, down-and-outs, losers: That park is frequented by the dregs of society.
DRESS|0|v. 1 clothe, put on (clothing or clothes), attire, apparel, outfit, fit out, garb, accoutre or US also accouter; array, bedeck, deck out, rig out, smarten up: They dressed him to look like a prince. 2 array, equip, adorn, decorate, deck out, arrange: He has a job dressing shop windows. 3 bandage, treat, medicate, doctor: After dressing my wound they gave me a sedative. 4 dress down. reprimand, scold, berate, castigate, rebuke, reprove, upbraid, Colloq tell off, haul (someone) over the coals, Brit tear (someone) off a strip, US and Canadian chew out, US rake (someone) over the coals, tee off on (someone): The colonel dressed us down and cancelled all leave. 5 dress up. a put on dinner or formal clothes, put on one's (Sunday) best (clothes), Colloq put on one's best bib and tucker or one's glad rags: On the cruise, we dressed up in our dinner-jackets every night. b (put on a) costume, disguise, masquerade, camouflage, put on fancy dress: The children dressed up as goblins for Hallowe'en. --n. 6 frock, gown, outfit, costume, Colloq get-up: Why not wear your new dress to the dance tonight?
DRINK|0|v. 1 quaff, imbibe, sip, gulp, swallow, swill, guzzle, toss off, lap (up), Colloq wet one's whistle, swig, knock back, US belt: She prefers not to drink beer. 2 tipple, nip, indulge, tope, chug-a-lug, carouse, Colloq booze, bend the elbow, hit the bottle, go on a binge or bender, drown one's sorrows, US and Canadian go on a toot, Chiefly Brit pub-crawl: He threatened to leave her if she continued to drink. 3 drink to. toast, salute, celebrate, pledge: Let's drink to friendship! --n. 4 beverage, potation, liquid refreshment, liquid, potable, draught: After the match I was dying for a drink. 5 alcohol, spirits, liquor, the cup that cheers; stirrup-cup; Colloq booze, the bottle, hard stuff, mother's ruin, eye-opener, nightcap, US hooch; Slang rot-gut, US the sauce, red-eye: After the accident, he took to drink. 6 tot, nip, draught or US also draft, schooner, pint, bumper, jigger, snifter, sip, taste, glass, gulp, swallow, Scots (wee) deoch an doris or doch an dorris, (wee) dram, Brit sundowner; Colloq snort, slug, swig: Granny likes a drink before retiring. 7 the drink. the sea, the ocean, the main, the deep, Nautical Davy Jones's locker, Colloq the briny: The canoe tipped and our picnic went right into the drink!
DRIVE|0|v. 1 push, propel, impel, urge, press, thrust, move, motivate, actuate, prod, spur, goad, urge, force, make, compel, coerce, constrain, oblige, pressure or Brit pressurize, high-pressure, induce, require; demand: What drove you to become a traitor? 2 operate, conduct, manoeuvre, manipulate, handle, steer, control; pilot: Have you a valid licence to drive this car? 3 ride, travel, motor, go, move, proceed, journey, tour, Colloq tool along: Luckily, when the tyre blew out, we were driving at only 20 m.p.h. 4 stab, plunge, thrust, sink, push, send, dig, ram: He has driven the dagger deep into the monster's heart. 5 herd, drove, shepherd, ride herd (on): We used to drive the cattle up the old Chisholm Trail to market in Abilene. 6 drive at. hint (at), suggest, imply, intimate, allude or refer to, intend, mean, have in mind, indicate, Colloq get at: He was so naìve he had no idea what she was driving at. --n. 7 ride, trip, outing, journey, run, tour, excursion, Colloq spin, whirl: On Sundays we would go for a drive in the country. 8 energy, effort, impetus, vigour, vim, spunk, enterprise, industry, initiative, ambition, ambitiousness, determination, persistence, urgency, zeal, enthusiasm, keenness, aggressiveness, Colloq get-up-and-go, pep, zip, push, hustle: She owes her success to her drive as well as her talent. 9 driveway, approach, (private) road or street, lane, byway, (scenic) route: The drive up to the house is lined with trees. 10 campaign, effort, appeal, crusade: The club has had a successful membership drive this year.
DROOP|0|v. 1 sag, hang (down), wilt, dangle: Flags drooped in the windless heat. 2 languish, weaken, flag, wilt, wither, be limp, slump, sag: Halfway through the marathon she began to droop a bit.
DROWN|0|v. 1 flood, inundate, swamp, deluge, drench, immerse, submerge, engulf: The village was completely drowned in the tidal wave. 2 overwhelm, overcome, overpower, engulf, swamp, deluge, inundate: We were almost drowned by the responses to our advertisement.
DWARF|0|v. overshadow, dominate, diminish, minimize: The new tower dwarfs the older buildings.
DWELL|0|v. 1 reside, abide, live, lodge, stay, remain, rest, Formal domicile: After the father's death, the mother dwelt with her daughter. 2 dwell on or upon. harp on, persist in, emphasize, stress, focus on, linger or tarry over, elaborate (on); labour: Why must you always dwell on a person's shortcomings?
DYING|0|adj. expiring; sinking, slipping away, going, failing, fading (fast), at death's door, on one's deathbed, with one foot in the grave, in extremis; moribund: The doctor said the dying man was in no pain.
EAGER|0|adj. avid, zealous, ardent, earnest, keen, enthusiastic, hot, hungry, fervent, fervid, passionate, spirited, inspirited, energetic, energized, vehement, animated, excited, vitalized, stimulated; desirous, yearning, desiring, craving, wanting, longing, itchy, impatient; anxious; Colloq dying, Slang US hot to trot: We were particularly eager to spend our holiday in Spain.
EARLY|0|adv. 1 beforehand, ahead (of time), prematurely: I arrived too early and had to wait. 2 anciently, initially, originally, at or near the start or beginning: Plants appeared early in the development of life forms on earth. 3 betimes, at cock crow or cock's-crow, at (the crack or break of) dawn, at daybreak: You're up early this morning! --adj. 4 untimely, premature; inopportune, inappropriate: The early fruit isn't as sweet. 5 initial, beginning, original, first, pioneer, advanced: He was one of the earliest writers on the subject. 6 primeval, primitive, primordial, ancient, old, prehistoric, antediluvian, original; antique, antiquated: The Olduvai Gorge has yielded up many early humanoid fossils.
EARTH|0|n. 1 globe, mother earth, planet, world, blue planet, Terra: Ozone depletion in the upper atmosphere may be threatening life on earth. 2 soil, dirt, loam, sod, clay, turf, ground, mould: Pack the earth firmly around the roots.
EERIE|0|adj. frightening, weird, strange, uncanny, ghostly, spectral, dreadful, unearthly, frightful Poetic or Scots eldritch, Scots mysterious, Colloq scary, creepy, spooky: I had the eeriest feeling I was being watched.
EJECT|0|v. 1 force or drive out, expel, oust, remove, get rid of, evict, Colloq throw or kick or boot out: They were ejected for causing a disturbance. 2 expel, emit, throw up or out, spew (forth), discharge, spout, disgorge, vomit (up or forth), send out or forth; ooze, exude, extravasate: The volcano ejected boulders the size of houses. 3 discharge, dismiss, cashier, drum out, lay off, declare or make redundant, Colloq fire, sack, boot out, axe, give the sack or boot or axe, give (someone) his or her marching orders or US also walking papers, send packing: He was ejected for stealing paper clips.
ELDER|0|adj. 1 older, senior: My elder brother was born in 1930. 2 venerable, respected, (pre-)eminent; experienced, veteran: Clemenceau was an elder statesman at the Geneva Convention. --n. 3 senior, superior; patriarch, elder statesman, dean, doyen or doyenne: Everyone paid great respect to the elders of the tribe.
ELECT|0|v. 1 choose, select, pick, vote (for), determine, designate: We must elect a new chairperson at the next meeting. --adj. 2 chosen, elected, selected, picked out: The president-elect takes office next month. 3 select, choice, first-rate, first-class: An elect few make up the executive committee.
ELFIN|0|adj. 1 elvish, elfish, elf-like, impish, puckish, frolicsome, sprightly, arch, playful, mischievous, tricky: I suppose she has a certain elfin charm, but I don't like her. 2 small, wee, diminutive, tiny, little, dainty, Lilliputian: This is a delightful tale of elfin folk and magic birds.
ELUDE|0|v. 1 evade, escape, avoid, dodge, slip away from, Colloq duck, give the slip, shake off: The suspect has eluded the police for a year. 2 evade, escape; baffle, puzzle, confuse, bewilder, confound; frustrate, stump, thwart: The point of your argument eludes me.
EMPTY|0|adj. 1 void, unfilled, hollow, bare, barren, vacant, unfurnished, unadorned, undecorated; emptied, drained, spent, exhausted: That empty space on the wall needs a painting. 2 vacant, unoccupied, uninhabited, untenanted: He finally found an empty flat with two bedrooms. 3 deserted, desolate, uninhabited, wild, waste, bare, barren; forsaken: He wandered for days on the empty moor. 4 trivial, insincere, hypocritical, hollow, cheap, worthless, valueless, meaningless, insignificant, insubstantial, unsatisfying, idle: His promises were merely words, empty words. 5 vacant, blank, deadpan, expressionless, poker-faced; vacuous, fatuous, stupid, foolish, inane: He looked at me with that empty expression of his. 6 blank, clean, new, unused, clear: On an empty page write your name and the date. 7 empty of. devoid of, lacking (in), wanting, in want of, deficient in, destitute of, without, sans: Their hearts are empty of compassion. --v. 8 clear, remove, take out or away, put out, cast or throw out, eject; vacate, evacuate; dump, drain, exhaust, pour out, void, discharge, unload: Thieves emptied everything from the house. The police are emptying the building because of a bomb scare. Empty these bottles outside.
ENACT|0|v. 1 pass, legislate, ratify; ordain, decree, rule, command, order, authorize: The law was enacted to protect consumers. 2 act (out), represent, play, portray, depict, perform, appear as: She enacted the role of a modern Lady Macbeth.
ENEMY|0|n. foe, antagonist, adversary, opponent, rival, competitor, contestant, contender; the opposition, the other side: His enemies were running a smear campaign against him.
ENJOY|0|v. 1 delight in, appreciate, like, take or derive pleasure or satisfaction in or from, relish (in), fancy, take to, Slang dig, get a kick or lift or charge out of, get high on, get off on: Bernard really enjoys Wagner. 2 benefit or profit from, take advantage of, use, utilize, make use of, use to advantage, have, possess: He cannot be charged because he enjoys diplomatic immunity. 3 enjoy oneself. have a good time, make merry, Colloq have a ball or the time of one's life: I enjoyed myself at your party.
ENROL|0|v. 1 enlist, register, sign up or on (for), join; volunteer; recruit; Colloq join up: He enrolled at the university. 2 record, register, chronicle, put down, list, note, inscribed, catalogue: Their names will be enrolled forever in the Book of Heroes.
ENTER|0|v. 1 go or come (in or into), pass (into): Please enter at the left. 2 penetrate, pierce, stick (into), stab (into), puncture; invade, infiltrate: The nail entered the tyre here. The iron entered into his soul. 3 insert, inscribe, write, set or write or put down, note, record, take or jot down, register; log, document, minute: Enter your name on the dotted line. 4 enter on or upon, begin, start, commence, undertake, set out on, take up: I didn't want to enter the marathon if I couldn't finish. 5 enrol, enlist, sign on or up, join, become a member of: He has entered the ranks of the unemployed. 6 present, offer, proffer, tender, submit: More than 100 poems were entered in the competition. 7 file, register, record, submit: The defendant entered a plea of 'Not guilty'. 8 enter into. engage or participate in, sign, be (a) party to, co-sign, countersign: We entered into an agreement to buy the house.
ENTRY|0|n. 1 access, entrance, entr÷e, admittance, admission: The burglar gained entry through the skylight. 2 access, entrance, entry-way, door, inlet, passage, way in: Both entries were blocked. 3 entrance, arrival, coming or going in: His entry was met with jeers. 4 record, item, memorandum, note, account, listing; registration; Colloq memo: There is no entry in his diary for the 15th of April. 5 competitor, contestant, player, entrant, participant, candidate; rival, adversary, opponent: Dennis was a late entry in the marathon.
ENVOY|0|n. delegate, legate, ambassador, diplomat, minister, (papal) nuncio, attach÷; representative, emissary, agent; Formal envoy extraordinary, minister plenipotentiary: The government sent an envoy to discuss trade.
EQUAL|0|adj. 1 identical, the same (as), interchangeable, one and the same, coequal, selfsame; like, alike, tantamount, similar (to), equivalent, commensurate: This year's sales figures are equal to last year's. 2 uniform, regular, corresponding, correspondent, congruent, congruous, (evenly) balanced, (evenly) matched, matching; equivalent, even; commensurate, comparable, proportionate, (evenly) proportioned, harmonious, symmetrical; Colloq fifty-fifty, Brit level pegging, US even Steven: Women are entitled to equal employment opportunities. The scores are equal. 3 equal to. up to, capable of, fit(ted) or suited or suitable for, adequate for, Archaic or literary sufficient unto: Are you sure that Renwick is equal to the responsibility? --n. 4 peer, colleague, fellow, brother, mate, counterpart, equivalent, alter ego, compeer: Constance is certainly anyone's equal in intelligence. --v. 5 match, meet, even, correspond (to), square (with), tally (with), tie (with), parallel, come up to; rival: He will never be able to equal the world record.
EQUIP|0|v. furnish, provide, supply, stock, outfit, fit (out or up), rig (out or up), accoutre, array, attire, dress, deck (out), caparison, clothe, Chiefly Brit kit out or up: We can equip you with any scuba gear you may require.
ERASE|0|v. 1 expunge, rub or scratch or blot or wipe out, delete, cancel, efface, scratch, cross or strike out or off, obliterate: The scribe erased one line and substituted another. 2 abolish, destroy, obliterate, remove, eliminate, (get) rid of, eradicate, efface: We erased every trace of evidence that we had been there.
ERECT|0|adj. 1 upright, standing, upstanding, straight, vertical, perpendicular, plumb: There was a slight stoop now in what had previously been a notably erect body. --v. 2 build, construct, put up, raise; pitch: I could swear that they erected that building overnight! 3 establish, found, set up, form, institute, organize, create: Their religion was erected on the principles of utilitarianism.
ERODE|0|v. wear (down or away), eat away, grind down, abrade, gnaw away (at), consume, corrode, wash away; deteriorate, destroy, deplete, reduce, diminish: Water has eroded the rock. Their continued lying has eroded my confidence in their honesty.
ERROR|0|n. 1 mistake, inaccuracy, fault, flaw, blunder, slip, gaffe; misprint, typographical error, erratum, solecism; Brit literal, Colloq slip-up, goof, clanger, fluff, boo-boo, howler, Brit bloomer, Slang foul-up, boner, Brit boob: I cannot accept a report so full of errors. 2 sin, transgression, trespass, offence, indiscretion, wrongdoing, misconduct, iniquity, evil, wickedness, flagitiousness: He seems to have seen the error of his ways. 3 in error. a wrong, mistaken, incorrect, at fault: She was in error about the date of the conference. b mistakenly, incorrectly, by mistake, erroneously: I caught the earlier train in error.
ERUPT|0|v. 1 eject, discharge, expel, emit, burst forth or out, blow up, explode, spew forth or out, break out, spout, vomit (up or forth), throw up or off, spit out or up, belch (forth), gush: The volcano erupted ash and lava. 2 appear, come out, break out: A boil erupted on his chin.
ESSAY|0|n. 1 article, composition, paper, theme, piece; thesis, dissertation, disquisition, tract: Her essay is on the life cycle of the flea. 2 attempt, effort, try, endeavour, venture; Colloq shot, go: This is his first essay into the financial world. --v. 3 try, attempt, endeavour, strive, make an effort, undertake, venture, tackle, test, go about, Colloq take a crack or whack or stab at, Slang have a go at, give (it or something) a shot, have a go or bash (at): Let him essay to do better.
EVADE|0|v. 1 avoid, elude, dodge, sidestep, escape (from); get away (from), get out of, duck, circumvent, shirk, Colloq chiefly US and Canadian weasel out (of): The prisoner evaded capture. Don't evade your responsibilities. 2 quibble, equivocate, tergiversate, manoeuvre, hedge, shuffle, fudge, fence, parry, Colloq waffle, Slang cop out: The witness continued to evade the barrister's questions.
EVENT|0|n. 1 occurrence, happening, incident, episode, occasion, circumstance, affair, experience: An event then took place that changed the course of his life. 2 issue, outcome, consequence, result, conclusion, upshot, end, effect: There is no merit in preparing for a disaster after the event. 3 at all events or in any event. come what may, in any case, at any rate, regardless, anyhow, anyway: At all events, we were ready and waiting when the raid started. 4 in the event. in the reality or actuality, as it or things turned out, at the time, when it happened: In the event, we left as soon as we could.
EVICT|0|v. oust, dislodge, turn out (of house and home), expel, eject, remove, dispossess, put out, Law disseise or disseize, Colloq toss or throw or kick or boot out, Brit turf out: The landlord evicted us for non-payment of rent.
EVOKE|0|v. summon (up), call up or forth, elicit, conjure up, invoke, recall, reawake(n), (a)wake, wake(n), (a)rouse, raise: Seeing her again evoked fond memories.
EXACT|0|adj. 1 precise, accurate, correct, faithful, true, faultless, identical, literal, perfect, consummate: This is an exact copy of the original. Were those her exact words? 2 careful, meticulous, strict, rigorous, accurate, exacting, severe, fastidious, scrupulous, thorough, painstaking, rigid, punctilious: He has conducted the most exact experiments. --v. 3 demand, extort, require, enforce, insist on or upon, extract, impose, wrest, compel, enjoin, call for, requisition, claim: The chief exacted tribute before releasing the prisoners.
EXALT|0|v. 1 elevate, raise or lift (up or on high), upraise, uplift, upgrade, boost, promote, advance: The goalkeeper was exalted to heroic status by the fans. 2 praise, honour, extol, glorify, idolize, dignify, ennoble, revere, reverence, venerate, pay homage or tribute to, celebrate; lionize: O magnify the Lord with me, and let us exalt His name together. 3 stimulate, excite, animate, (a)rouse, fire, inspire, electrify, awaken, spur, stir (up), inspirit: Certain drugs have the effect of exalting the imagination.
EXCEL|0|v. surpass, be superior (to), dominate, top, exceed, go beyond, beat, outstrip, outrank, outdo, outpace, outshine, overshadow, eclipse; shine, be pre-eminent: Few places excel the Caribbean islands for beauty. He really excels when it comes to swimming.
EXERT|0|v. 1 exercise, use, utilize, put to use or work or effect, employ, wield, bring to bear, bring into play, expend: Please exert your influence to have his conviction quashed. 2 exert oneself. attempt, try, endeavour, make an effort, apply oneself, strive, do one's best, work, strain, struggle, toil, push, drive (oneself), go all out, give one's all, Colloq knock oneself out, cudgel one's brains, beat one's brains out, do one's damnedest, Slang bust a gut: If Peter exerted himself a bit more, we might see some results.
EXILE|0|n. 1 expatriation, banishment, expulsion, deportation, transportation; separation: Napoleon was sentenced to exile on Elba. 2 expatriate, ÷migr÷(e), emigrant, outcast, deportee, pariah, displaced person, DP; alien, foreigner, outsider: Many of the exiles from Nazi Germany settled in Britain. --v. 3 deport, expel, alienate, banish, expatriate, oust, eject, displace, transport, drive or run or cast out, outlaw, exclude, oust, evict, bar, ban; extradite; maroon: Many criminals were exiled to Australia.
EXPEL|0|v. 1 eject, dislodge, throw or cast out, drive or force out, evict, put or push out, remove, run (someone) off or out, displace, dispossess, show the door, suspend, dismiss, let go, Colloq fire, Brit sack, turf out: They will expel the tenant at the earliest opportunity. 2 banish, deport, exile, expatriate, outlaw, maroon; proscribe, ban, bar, debar, dismiss, exclude, blackball, drum out, cashier, discharge, oust: The leader of the opposition was expelled from the country. The committee voted to expel Horace from the club.
EXTOL|0|v. exalt, elevate, uplift, glorify, praise, laud, applaud, commend, acclaim, cheer, celebrate, pay tribute or homage to, sing the praises of, make much of, honour, congratulate, compliment: William is always extolling the talents of some dancer or other.
EXTRA|0|adj. 1 additional, added, auxiliary, accessory, supplementary, supplemental, further, ancillary, subsidiary, collateral, adventitious: We had an extra person for dinner. Zenobia has an extra toe on each foot. 2 leftover, excess, spare, surplus, unused, superfluous, supernumerary, reserve: After all were served, we had two extra desserts. --n. 3 addition, addendum, accessory, appurtenance, supplement, bonus, premium, dividend: As an extra, each customer receives a free ball-point pen. 4 supplement, US mark-up, surcharge, Slang US and Canadian kicker: There is an extra if you want bread and butter. 5 supernumerary, walk-on, Colloq super, spear-carrier: One could scarcely call being an extra a 'Hollywood career'. --adv. 6 uncommonly, unusually, exceptionally, unexpectedly, extraordinarily, remarkably, notably, surprisingly, amazingly, very, particularly, especially, extremely, strikingly: Teacher said that Philip was extra good today. 7 additionally, again, more, in addition: They charge extra for room service.
EXULT|0|v. rejoice, revel, glory (in), jump for joy, delight, celebrate, make merry: We exulted in our new-found freedom.
FAINT|0|adj. 1 dim, dull, pale, faded, indistinct, vague, hazy, imperceptible, indiscernible, unclear, blurred, blurry, muzzy, wavering, faltering, ill-defined, weak, feeble, flickering, subdued; low, soft, slight, hushed, muffled, muted, inaudible, stifled: A faint light burned in the corridor. I heard a faint noise. 2 dizzy, light-headed, unsteady, vertiginous, giddy, Colloq woozy: I felt faint after climbing the stairs. --v. 3 black out, pass out, lose consciousness, swoon, drop, collapse, Colloq keel over: She fainted when they told her the news. --n. 4 loss of consciousness, blackout, unconsciousness, collapse, swoon, Medicine syncope: He dropped in a dead faint.
FAITH|0|n. 1 belief, credence, confidence, conviction, trust, certainty, certitude, assurance, assuredness, sureness, reliance, dependence: His faith in God is unassailable. I have great faith in her ability. 2 belief, religion, creed, persuasion, dogma, teaching, doctrine, denomination, sect: To which faith do you belong? She is of the Jewish faith. 3 duty, allegiance, obligation, promise, faithfulness, loyalty, fidelity, devotion, consecration, dedication, fealty, obedience: Don't break faith with your electorate by supporting the bill.
FALSE|0|adj. 1 untrue, unfactual, untruthful, wrong, amiss, mistaken, erroneous, incorrect, inaccurate, inexact, imprecise, faulty, flawed, invalid, unsound, unreal, imaginary, fictitious, spurious: The explorers gave a completely false picture of the local inhabitants. 2 untrue, untruthful, lying, misleading, fallacious, fabricated, made-up, concocted, mendacious, untrustworthy, fraudulent, meretricious, deceptive, deceitful, treacherous, Colloq phoney or US also phony: The testimony of this witness is completely false. 3 counterfeit, imitation, simulated, sham, forged, fraudulent, fake, artificial, synthetic, manufactured, unnatural, spurious, bogus, ersatz, factitious, mock, pseudo, Colloq phoney or US also phony: Your false teeth look almost real. 4 sham, feigned, affected, insincere, faked, manufactured, counterfeit(ed): Don't shed any false tears over me when I'm gone. 5 illogical, fallacious, unsound, invalid, flawed, faulty: That conclusion could come only from false reasoning.
FANCY|0|adj. 1 ornate, decorative, decorated, ornamental, ornamented, elaborate, embellished, embroidered, fanciful, extravagant, rococo, baroque, gingerbread, Byzantine, complicated, intricate, complex: The modern trend has been away from fancy architecture. 2 illusory, capricious, fanciful, extravagant, fantastic, far-fetched, delusive, whimsical, visionary, unrealistic, grandiose: He has some fancy ideas about building an undersea city. 3 de luxe, luxury, luxurious, choice, select, prime, special, elegant, superior, quality, high-class; posh: They stock only fancy fruits and vegetables. She has a fancy suite at the Cardigan Hotel. 4 high, exorbitant, inflated, outrageous: One has to pay very fancy prices for haute couture. --n. 5 imagination, creation, conception, inventiveness, creativeness, creativity: These chimeras are entirely a product of his fancy. 6 imagination, fantasy, hallucination, delusion, illusion, unreality, make-believe, dream, day-dream, pipedream, mirage, phantasm, phantom, figment (of the imagination), impression: Our plans for the future must be based on fact, not fancy. 7 liking, inclination, fondness, taste, penchant, attraction, preference, partiality, predilection, yearning, craving, hankering, wish, desire, longing: Miss Crow's fancy for younger men often causes her some embarrassment. 8 idea, whim, caprice, whimsy, urge, impulse, notion, vagary, quirk, crotchet, peculiarity: His fancy today is that he invented electricity. --v. 9 imagine, conceive, picture, visualize, envisage, think or make up, conjure up, US envision, Colloq dream up: He fancies himself on a big yacht in the Mediterranean. 10 think, imagine, understand, believe, suspect, guess, conjecture, presume, surmise, assume, take it, suppose, infer, reckon: From his costume I fancy he must be Superman. Fancy Kim winning the Nobel prize! 11 like, be attracted to, take (a liking) to, desire, want, crave, long or pine for, have a yen or craving for, have an eye for, wish for, hunger for, ...
FATAL|0|adj. 1 fateful, deadly, murderous, lethal, mortal, toxic, terminal, final; baneful, poisonous: She drank the fatal potion without a word. Who dealt the fatal blow? 2 destructive, fateful, ruinous, calamitous, dreadful, disastrous, devastating, cataclysmic, catastrophic, harmful, mischievous, damaging: Discovery by the police would prove fatal to our plan. 3 fateful, fated, destined, predestined, decreed, ordained, foreordained, preordained, predetermined, inevitable, unavoidable, necessary, essential, inescapable, ineluctable: The events fell into their fatal sequence.
FATED|0|adj. 1 destined, predestined, predetermined, decreed, doomed, fateful, ordained, foreordained, preordained, decided: The fated day of my trial arrived. 2 sure, certain, doomed, damned, cursed: Was I fated to spend the rest of my life in this fetid dungeon? 3 fatal, fateful, unavoidable, inescapable, inevitable, ineluctable: Their fated punishment was to bail out the sea using sieves.
FAULT|0|n. 1 imperfection, flaw, defect, blemish, deficiency, shortcoming, failing, weakness; frailty, foible, peccadillo: The fault lies in this circuit. Using filthy language is only one of his faults. 2 mistake, error, blunder, lapse, failure, offence, oversight, slip(-up), indiscretion, gaffe, gaucherie, faux pas, Slang boner, howler, goof, boo-boo, Brit boob: People should be responsible for their faults. There are many faults in this manuscript. 3 responsibility, liability, culpability; blame, accountability, answerability: It wasn't my fault that the tree fell down. The fault lies with you, James. 4 sin, transgression, trespass, misdeed, offence, misdemeanour, vice, indiscretion, misconduct, misbehaviour: He will confess his faults to anyone who will listen. 5 at fault. to blame, blameable, blameworthy, in the wrong, responsible, answerable, accountable, liable, culpable, guilty: You were at fault for failing to report the crime. 6 find fault. criticize, censure, take exception (to), carp (at), cavil (at), pick at, pick on, pick apart, pick holes in, niggle, fuss, Colloq nit-pick, knock: She constantly finds fault with everything I do. 7 to a fault. excessively, extremely, to an extreme, in the extreme, unreasonably, exceedingly, unduly, disproportionately, immoderately, irrationally, US overly: She is modest to a fault. --v. 8 find fault with, censure, blame, criticize, call to account, impugn, call into question, hold (someone) responsible or accountable or to blame, lay at (someone's) door, accuse: You cannot be faulted for not knowing the fuel tank was empty.
FEAST|0|n. 1 banquet, (lavish) dinner, (sumptuous) repast, (Lucullan or Epicurean) treat, Colloq spread, Brit beanfeast; Slang blow-out, Brit beano: Dinner at Patrick's is no mere meal - it is a feast. 2 observance, celebration, rite, ritual, solemnization, commemoration, memorialization, anniversary, birthday, jubilee, feast-day, festival, féte, holy day, holiday, red-letter day, occasion, event, gala: Church calendars list both movable and immovable feasts. 3 treat, delight, pleasure, gratification: Seeing you again was a feast for the eyes. --v. 4 dine, wine (and dine), fare well or sumptuously, (over)indulge, gorge (oneself), gormandize, eat one's fill: We feasted on roast turkey with all the trimmings. 5 entertain, feed, wine and dine, treat, regale: Visitors to Arthur's court were feasted with the finest viands available. 6 delight, gratify, please, cheer, gladden: Ali Baba feasted his eyes on the vast treasure in the cave.
FEINT|0|n. distraction, mock attack, bluff, dodge, manoeuvre, false move, pretence, ruse, ploy, subterfuge, deception, tactic, stratagem, gambit, artifice: The attack on the flanks is merely a feint - the main thrust will be at the centre.
FELON|0|n. criminal, outlaw, lawbreaker, offender, culprit, miscreant, malefactor, wrongdoer: Only if convicted of a certain class of crime is a person technically a felon.
FENCE|0|n. 1 barrier, enclosure, barricade, confine, wall, rampart; railing(s), palisade: Maurice had a fence put up round his house. 2 on the fence. undecided, indecisive, vacillating, uncommitted, uncertain, irresolute; impartial, neutral, non-partisan, unbiased, unprejudiced, unaligned, non-aligned, independent: She is on the fence with regard to the issue of capital punishment. --v. 3 enclose, encircle, surround, circumscribe, bound, coop, restrict, hedge, confine, fortify, protect, separate: The pasture is fenced both to keep the sheep in and the wolves out. Fence off this area for a garden. 4 parry, avoid, fend off, sidestep, dodge, evade, hedge, stonewall, equivocate, palter, tergiversate, vacillate, shilly-shally, quibble, cavil, beat about the bush, qualify, prevaricate, Colloq Brit waffle: Awkward questions were adroitly fenced by the chairman. Give a straight answer and stop fencing.
FETCH|0|v. 1 get, go after or for, bring (back), retrieve, deliver, obtain, carry or convey (back): Would you please fetch my slippers? 2 summon, bring or draw forth, call, elicit: The doorbell fetched me from my bath. 3 sell for, bring (in), go for, yield, earn, make, cost, realize: These days a house near London fetches a high price. --n. 4 reach, stretch, range, span, extent: It is quite a long fetch across the bay.
FIBRE|0|n. 1 filament, thread, strand, fibril, tendril: This fabric is woven from cotton fibre. 2 texture, structure, material, fabric: The fibre of this rock is granular. 3 essence, character, nature, mould, composition, constitution, substance, quality, stripe, cast, make-up: Love for him is wrapped up in the very fibre of her being.
FIELD|0|n. 1 ground, land, arable, pasture, grassland, meadow, green, lawn, common, clearing, tract, area, acreage, Literary greensward, lea, sward; Archaic mead: The house looks out over the fields. 2 battlefield, battleground, airfield; (cricket) pitch, football or hockey or soccer field, American football gridiron: We marched onto the field prepared for anything. 3 competition, competitors, players, entrants, contestants, participants, candidates, possibilities, applicants: Who can match you among today's field? 4 area, domain, realm, department, territory, province, sphere, scope, division, interest, line, m÷tier, discipline, bailiwick, speciality, specialization, expertise, forte, strength: She is certainly the leading expert in her field. My field is biochemistry. --v. 5 catch, stop, return, retrieve, pick up: Did you see how Border fielded that ball? 6 answer, reply to, respond to, handle, manipulate, deal with, react to, cope with: The candidate adroitly fielded questions from the press.
FIEND|0|n. 1 See devil. 2 addict, maniac, fanatic; fan, aficionado, enthusiast, devotee, hound, follower, Colloq buff, nut, Slang freak: He's a Welsh rarebit fiend.
FIERY|0|adj. 1 burning, flaming, blazing, hot, red-hot, white-hot, overheated; afire, on fire, in flames, ablaze: Fiery lava burst from the volcano. 2 glowing, red, incandescent, brilliant, luminous, glaring, gleaming, radiant; aglow, afire: We watched the fiery sunset fade into azure hues. 3 ardent, eager, spirited, passionate, excited, excitable, peppery, irascible, touchy, irritable, edgy, hotheaded, fierce: I had best not be late as my boss has a fiery temper.
FIGHT|0|v. 1 contend (with), battle, conflict (with), encounter, war (against), engage, clash, take up arms (against), feud (with), combat, bear or take up arms (against), brawl, struggle or strive (with or against), cross swords (with), close (with), come to or exchange blows (with), go to or wage war (with or against), joust (with), grapple or wrestle (with), skirmish (with), tussle or scuffle (with or against); box, spar; Old-fashioned broil: He offered to fight anyone in the place. Why are the boys always fighting? 2 dispute, question, confront, contest, oppose, contradict, defy, confute, protest, resist, rail or struggle, against, withstand, refute, oppugn, make or take a stand against, contravene, confound: He has sworn to fight prejudice wherever he finds it. 3 rise up, make or take a stand, struggle, take up arms: It is better to fight for the good than to rail at the ill. 4 argue, dispute, bicker, quarrel, wrangle, squabble, spat, tiff, fall out (over), have words, disagree, row, altercate, debate: I hear the neighbours fight every night. 5 fight off. repel, repulse: Prepare to fight off anyone trying to come over the side! 6 fight shy of. avoid, keep or remain aloof from or of, keep away from: She usually fights shy of going to cocktail parties. --n. 7 battle, conflict, bout, duel, (single) combat, monomachy, one-on-one, action, warfare, clash, hostilities, war, match, struggle, engagement, meeting, encounter, contest, fighting, brawl, Donnybrook, affray, fray, fracas, disturbance, riot, row, mél÷e or melee, tussle, scuffle, scrimmage, skirmish, brush, Colloq free-for-all, set-to, scrap, Brit scrum, bovver, Slang US rumble, Old-fashioned broil: Three policeman were injured in the hour-long fight. 8 altercation, argument, quarrel, feud, dispute, run-in, disagreement, dissension, dissidence, dissent, difference (of opinion), squabble, bickering, spat, misunderstanding, row, discord, Colloq ruckus: Such fights between husband and wife happen all the time. 9 pugnaci...
FILMY|0|adj. 1 gauzy, gossamer(-like), sheer, delicate, diaphanous, transparent, translucent, flimsy, light, cobwebby, insubstantial, see-through, peekaboo: Phoebe looked very seductive in her filmy negligee. 2 murky, blurry, cloudy, hazy, misty, bleary, blurred, dim, clouded, beclouded, milky, pearly, opalescent: We inched down the cliff in the filmy light of the moon.
FILTH|0|n. 1 sewage or sewerage, dirt, slime, muck, sludge, sullage, effluent, pollution, trash, rubbish, garbage, refuse, ordure, (night-)soil, excrement, faeces, excreta, manure, droppings, guano, dung, foul matter, filthiness, offal, leavings, carrion, decay, putrescence, putrefaction, Slang crud, Brit gunge, US grunge, Taboo slang shit: Cleaning the filth from the Augean stables was the fifth labour of Hercules. 2 corruption, vileness, baseness, foulness, rottenness, debasement, defilement, taint, pollution, adulteration, perversion, degradation, taint; sullying, besmirchment: Sodom and Gomorrah were destroyed along with their filth. 3 indecency, obscenity, smut, pornography, corruption, nastiness, vulgarity, grossness: The censors forbade the showing of films with any hint of filth.
FINAL|0|adj. 1 ending, concluding, terminating, finishing, closing, last, terminal, ultimate, end: The final sentence needs rewriting. 2 conclusive, decisive, unalterable, irreversible, irrevocable, incontrovertible, irrefutable, indisputable, unchangeable, immutable, definitive; settled, fixed, absolute, certain, sure: Those are my final words on the subject. We made a final series of measurements.
FIRST|0|adj. 1 foremost, leading, chief, head, premier, prime, primary, principal, pre-eminent: The Kennedys were regarded as among 'the first people of Boston'. I heard that your son is now first violinist in the Philharmonic. 2 earliest, original, senior, oldest; initial, beginning, maiden, opening: The first clock in England was made about 1288. The first assault resulted in great loss of life. 3 fundamental, elementary, basic, primary, cardinal, key, essential: It is necessary to return to first principles. --adv. 4 before, in front, earliest, beforehand, ahead, sooner, foremost: Bannister came in first. 5 in the first place, firstly, before all or anything else, initially, at the outset or beginning, to begin or start with, from the start, Colloq first off: First, I want to thank you all for coming to my party. --n. 6 beginning, start, inception, commencement, outset, Colloq word go: I knew you'd win from the first. 7 first place, blue ribbon, gold (medal), triumph, victory; win: Britain achieved three firsts in yesterday's athletics meeting. 8 at first. initially, in the beginning, at the start or outset, Colloq from the word go: I didn't believe him at first.
FISHY|0|adj. 1 piscine, fishlike, piscatory, piscatorial: On the fishmonger's slab lay an array of fishy offerings, only a few of which I could recognize. 2 dubious, doubtful, questionable, unlikely, far-fetched, suspicious, not kosher, peculiar, odd, queer, strange, suspect, improbable, implausible, Colloq shady, funny: There is something fishy about this deal.
FLAIR|0|n. 1 talent, ability, aptitude, feel, knack, genius, skill, mind, gift, faculty, propensity, bent, proclivity, facility: He showed a flair for music at an early age. 2 chic, panache, dash, ÷lan, ÷clat, style, stylishness, glamour, verve, sparkle, vitality, elegance, taste, Colloq savvy, pizazz or pizzazz, Old-fashioned oomph: She dresses with great flair.
FLAKE|0|n. 1 snowflake; scale, chip, bit, piece, scrap, particle, tuft, flock, scurf, fragment, shaving, sliver; wafer, lamina, Technical squama: A flake of slate caught him in the eye. --v. 2 Often, flake off. scale, chip, fragment; Technical desquamate, exfoliate: The paint is flaking off on this side. 3 flake out. a collapse, go to or fall asleep, drop off (to sleep), pass out, keel over: After the game, I flaked out on the couch for ten hours. b become flaky, act crazy: He flaked out when he heard the new record.
FLAME|0|n. 1 fire, blaze; conflagration: The flame began to lick about my feet. 2 passion, fervour, ardour, intensity, warmth, fire, zeal, feverishness, enthusiasm, eagerness: The flame of love is still burning. 3 boyfriend, girlfriend, lover, heartthrob, sweetheart, beau: Linda is an old flame of Trevor's. --v. 4 burn, blaze, glow, flare: Flaming embers from the chimney set fire to the roof. Here and there civil unrest flamed up in the countryside.
FLANK|0|n. 1 side, quarter; loin, haunch: The enemy was about to attack our flank. The pony drew back with trembling flanks. --v. 2 edge, border, line: Armed guards flanked the entrance. 3 skirt, outmanoeuvre, outflank, circle, go (a)round: They have enough troops to flank our forces to the east.
FLARE|0|v. 1 Often, flare up. blaze or flame (up), flash, erupt, break out; dazzle, flicker, glimmer, shimmer, flutter: The fire flared up briefly when he tossed the paper onto it. 2 Often, flare out. spread (out or outwards), widen, broaden, expand, increase, enlarge, bulge, swell: The sides of the vase flare out near the top. 3 Often, flare up. anger, lose one's temper, chafe, seethe, fume, rage, throw a tantrum, become incensed or angry (etc.); blow up, burst forth, erupt, explode; Colloq get one's back up, get one's Irish or dander up, see red, get worked up, fly off the handle, lose one's cool, go out of or lose control, get hot under the collar, blow one's top: He flares up at the very mention of her name. Tempers flared when we touched on the subject of politics. --n. 4 blaze, flame, burst, outburst, flash, glare, dazzle, incandescence, brilliance, luminosity: A bright orange flare erupted from the mouth of the cave. 5 beacon, light, signal, torch, flambeau, link: We prayed that the rescue party would see our flares. 6 spread, broadening, widening, expansion, swelling, bulge, increase, enlargement: I like that slight flare at the hem of the skirt.
FLASH|0|n. 1 blaze, flame, flare, burst, dazzle, spark, sparkle, coruscation, fulguration, glitter, twinkle, twinkling, flicker, flickering, scintilla, scintillation, glint, shimmer, glimmer, gleam, beam, ray, shaft: There was a blinding flash of blue light and the little man was gone. 2 (sudden or momentary) display, stroke, show, manifestation, outburst, outbreak, sign, indication, exhibition; touch, hint, suggestion: She has occasional flashes of insight bordering on genius. 3 moment, (split) second, instant, twinkling (of an eye), trice, minute, Colloq two shakes (of a lamb's tail), jiffy, shake, before you can say 'Jack Robinson': In a flash he was at her side. --v. 4 burn, blaze, flame, flare, burst (out), dazzle, spark, sparkle, coruscate, fulgurate, glitter, twinkle, flicker, scintillate, shimmer, glimmer, gleam, beam, glare, shine: The light flashed every eight seconds. 5 race, speed, dash, streak, flick, tear, rush, hurry, hasten, fly, zoom, shoot, bolt, whistle; run, sprint, dart, scuttle, scamper, Colloq scoot, skedaddle, take off, whiz or whizz: The train flashed by, doing about 100. --adj. 6 dazzling, showy, ostentatious, smart, chic, Colloq swish, classy, ritzy, snazzy: Barbara's new car looks very flash. 7 See flashy, 1.
FLEET|0|n. armada, flotilla, navy, naval (task) force, task force, squadron, convoy, division: A fleet of submarines was sent to harass shipping in the Atlantic.
FLESH|0|n. 1 meat; tissue, muscle: We ate the flesh and threw away the fat, bones, and skin. 2 body, corporeality, flesh and blood, human nature, physicality; mortality: The spirit is willing but the flesh is weak. 3 flesh and blood. real, physical, corporeal, human, natural: He pointed out that he was flesh and blood, not a robot. 4 in the flesh. personally, in person, really, physically, bodily, alive, living, in life: She stood before me, in the flesh. 5 one's (own) flesh and blood. kin, kinsfolk or US and Canadian kinfolk, family, stock, blood, kith and kin, relatives, relations: How could she treat her own flesh and blood that way? --v. 6 flesh out. substantiate, fill (in or out), give or lend substance or dimension to, incorporate, embody, colour: The idea is good, but it needs fleshing out.
FLING|0|v. 1 toss, pitch, throw, cast, hurl, heave, sling, propel, fire, let fly, send, Colloq lob, chuck: The smugglers had flung the contraband into the sea. --n. 2 indulgence, debauch, binge, spree, party, Colloq blow-off: This will be my last fling before going into the army. 3 gamble, risk, venture, attempt, try, go, shot, Colloq crack, whirl, bash: Her brief fling at an acting career was unsuccessful.
FLIRT|0|v. 1 coquette, play or act the coquette, tease, tantalize, toy, lead on, dally, philander, Colloq Brit chat up; Slang US come on to: Amanda enjoys flirting with the boys. 2 flirt with. trifle or toy or play or tinker with, contemplate, consider, entertain, give a thought to, think about or of, Colloq Brit try on: Many teenagers flirt with the idea of leaving home. --n. 3 coquette, tease, vamp, hussy, playgirl, minx; philanderer, playboy, Slang lady-killer, Old-fashioned wolf, sheik, masher, lounge lizard, Taboo slang cock-teaser, prick-teaser: They are both such flirts, I can't tell if their advances are genuine.
FLOAT|0|v. 1 hover, poise, bob, waft, be suspended, hang; sail, drift, glide, swim: In the clear Caribbean waters, the boat seemed to float in mid-air. 2 launch, establish, set up, organize, found, initiate, get going or moving: The financiers are trying to float a new company. 3 negotiate, arrange, transact, bring or carry off, get, effect, consummate, Colloq pull off, swing: Were you able to float a loan on your house? --n. 4 raft, Brit platform: I can swim out to the float. 5 buoy; pontoon: The bridge is supported by floats. 6 (parade) exhibit or display: Our parade float won first prize.
FLOOR|0|n. 1 flooring, parquet, boarding, planking, Nautical or colloq deck: The floor is mopped once a week. 2 storey, level; deck: On which floor is your flat? 3 minimum, bottom, base, lower limit, lowest (level): Owing to inflation, the wage floor was raised. Share prices went through the floor in today's trading. --v. 4 knock over or down, bowl over, prostrate, fell, overthrow, bring down, (make) fall; beat, defeat, conquer, destroy, rout, overwhelm, crush, whip, trounce, thrash, drub, best, worst: The champion was floored by a blow to the head. 5 stump, bewilder, baffle, dumbfound or dumfound, confuse, confound, disconcert, nonplus, perplex, puzzle, astound, astonish, amaze, surprise, shock: Alexandra was floored when she received a gift from her ex-husband.
FLOUT|0|v. deride, scorn, disdain, contemn, spurn, decry, denounce, misprize, blaspheme, depreciate, degrade, abase, belittle, minimize, deprecate, disparage, denigrate, mock, jeer, guy, ridicule, scoff, sneer, gibe or jibe (at), taunt, twit, insult, affront, Archaic fleer; Colloq put down, chaff, rag, knock: When introduced in the sixties, miniskirts brazenly flouted convention.
FLUFF|0|n. 1 down, fuzz, feather(s), thistledown, floss, lint, dust, dust-ball, fuzz ball: Be sure you clean the fluff from under the beds. 2 bit of fluff. poppet, girl (friend), mistress, Slang bit of all right, (bit of) crumpet, (bit of) skirt or stuff, Old-fashioned Brit popsy: Bickerley keeps some fluff on the side. 3 blunder, error, slip, mistake, Colloq howler, Brit bloomer, US and Canadian blooper: They showed a video of the fluffs actors make during recordings. --v. 4 muddle, spoil, ruin, make a mess of, bungle, botch, Colloq foul up, screw up, mess up, US snafu, Slang Brit cock up, balls up, US ball up, Taboo fuck up: I have a funny story about how Barrymore fluffed Hamlet's soliloquy. 5 fluff up. puff up, shake out or up, aerate: He doesn't like the pillows on his bed fluffed up.
FLUID|0|n. 1 liquid, solution, liquor, ichor; gas, vapour: It might surprise some to learn that physicists consider gases to be fluids. --adj. 2 liquid, flowing, running, runny, watery, aqueous: Once the metal has become fluid, it is poured into the moulds. 3 changeable, mutable, flexible, adjustable, variable, pliant, unformed, formless, unfixed, unstatic or non-static, plastic, protean, mercurial, mobile, unstable, shifting, uncertain, indefinite, unsettled: The situation is fluid and the decision could go either way.
FLUKE|0|n. lucky or successful stroke, stroke of (good) luck, lucky or big break, (happy) accident, quirk or twist of fate, windfall, fortuity, serendipity: If he won first prize, it was by a fluke.
FLUSH|0|v. 1 blush, redden, crimson, glow, burn, colour (up): When he told her she was pretty she flushed a bit. 2 Often, flush out. rinse, wash (out or away), douse, douche, hose down, flood, drench, clean out, cleanse, purge, discharge, empty: Oil tankers are flushed out far from shore. 3 animate, stir, inflame, impassion, quicken, arouse, excite, elate, encourage, cheer, delight, thrill, gladden: Suzie was flushed with the success of having got the job. --n. 4 blush, redness, bloom, rosiness, colour, blood, glow, radiance: When he was asked what had happened to the money, a flush rose to his cheek. 5 flood, deluge, drenching, soaking, overflow, inundation, rush, gush, surge, stream, flow: The flush of water washed away all the debris. 6 thrill, excitement, passion, quickening, arousal, stir, stirring, animation, elation, euphoria, delight, encouragement, thrill, tingle: In the first flush of success, they were overwhelmed with orders. He felt a flush come over him when he won the race.
FOCAL|0|adj. central, focused, concentrated, convergent, centred, centralized: The light rays come together at this focal point. Harris's address was the focal point of the conference.
FOCUS|0|n. 1 centre, concentration, focal point, heart, core, target, convergence, hub, nave; cynosure: Why should Anita always be the focus of attention? 2 in focus. clear, distinct, well- or sharply defined: With the telescope in focus, you feel as if you can almost touch the distant shore. 3 out of focus. unclear, indistinct, blurred, blurry, fuzzy, woolly: The photos are so out of focus that I can't tell who's who. --v. 4 concentrate, centre, converge, meet, pinpoint, spotlight; bring into focus; Colloq zero in: Without distractions, we can focus on the problem at hand.
FOIST|0|v. palm or pass off, impose, unload, put (off), push (off), Colloq lay (off), Brit fob off: Don't try to foist those fake paintings on me!
FOLLY|0|n. 1 foolishness, nonsense, absurdity, daftness, silliness, preposterousness, absurdness, senselessness, fatuousness, fatuity, rashness, stupidity, asininity, inanity, nonsensicalness, idiocy, imbecility, irrationality, lunacy, insanity, madness, craziness, eccentricity, weak-mindedness, feeble-mindedness, simple-mindedness, muddle-headedness, thickheadedness, stolidity, stolidness, obtuseness, brainlessness, Colloq dumbness, dopiness, nuttiness, US and Canadian kookiness: They saw the folly of fighting against such enormous odds. It would be folly to leave in this storm. 2 absurdity, mistake, blunder, error, faux pas, gaffe, Colloq goof, fluff: What follies have been committed in the name of honour!
FORCE|0|n. 1 power, might, energy, strength, potency, vigour, intensity, violence, impact; dynamism, pressure: The force of the blow knocked me down. 2 coercion, pressure, constraint, duress, compulsion, arm-twisting: When persuasion failed, the guards resorted to force. 3 troops, soldiers, army: NATO forces are on manoeuvres. 4 weight, persuasiveness, persistence, cogency, effectiveness, efficacy, strength, validity, significance, value: The force of his argument was sufficient to convince us. 5 meaning, import, significance: Are they able to cope with the full force of the word 'God'? 6 in force. in effect, effective, in operation, operative, valid, binding, current: The ancient customs still remain in force. The law came into force at midnight. --v. 7 make, oblige, require, compel, coerce, exact, constrain, enforce, impel, intimidate, pressure or Brit also pressurize, press, dragoon, twist (someone's) arm, Colloq bulldoze, put the squeeze on (someone): Each of us was forced to dig his own grave. 8 push, drive, thrust, propel; prise or prize, break, wrench, crack, jemmy, US pry: The tornado forced the chair through the wall. He forced open the safe and took the money. 9 exact, extort, extract, wrest, wring, drag: The CIA tried to force a confession from her.
FORGE|0|v. 1 make, construct, fashion, fabricate, manufacture, shape, mould, cast, hammer out: This plant forges heavy steel tools. He forged a new life for himself in the American West. 2 create, invent, conceive (of), coin, devise, think up, frame: I have forged a new plan of escape. 3 counterfeit, copy, reproduce, imitate, falsify, fake, Slang US hang paper: She forged her employer's name on the cheque. The gang was caught because they forged three-pound notes.
FORGO|0|v. 1 give up, renounce, forswear, forsake, abandon, do or go without, sacrifice, eliminate, omit, leave out or alone, cede, waive; avoid, shun, eschew, abstain from, turn down, pass up, deny (oneself): His new diet requires him to forgo all dairy produce. 2 resign, give up, yield, surrender, relinquish, cede, waive, renounce, forswear, abdicate, abandon: Did he not forgo all right to the throne by marrying a commoner?
FORTE|0|n. talent, strong point, gift, speciality, strength, aptitude, genius, Colloq long suit: His forte is carving ivory miniatures.
FOUND|0|v. 1 establish, originate, institute, set up, organize, inaugurate, start, initiate, create, bring about, develop: The society was founded a hundred years ago. 2 base, ground, establish, set, build; rest: This charity was founded on love and concern for children.
FRAIL|0|adj. 1 See fragile. 2 ailing, unwell, ill, sick, sickly, poorly, thin, skinny, slight, puny, scrawny, wasting or fading away, languishing, infirm, feeble; crippled, consumptive, phthisic: She is too frail to see visitors.
FRAME|0|n. 1 framework, shell, form, skeleton, support, chassis, framing, structure, fabric, scaffolding, construction: We made a frame of sticks over which the canvas was stretched. 2 border, casing, case-mounting, mount, edge, edging; setting: This picture would look best in a gold frame. 3 system, form, pattern, scheme, schema, plan, order, organization, framework, structure, construct, construction, arrangement, blueprint, design, layout, composition, context, make-up, configuration: The proposed new department does not fit into the present frame of the company. 4 physique, build, bone structure, body, skeleton, figure: He has an unusually large frame for a dancer. 5 frame of mind. mood, humour, state, condition, attitude, bent, disposition: I am not in the right frame of mind to put up with your nonsense at the moment. --v. 6 construct, build, put together, assemble, set up, put up, erect, raise, elevate: We framed the entire house in two days. 7 make, fashion, form, mould, carve out, forge, originate, create, devise, compose, formulate, put together, conceive, draw up, draft, shape, block out, give form or shape to; contrive: The founding fathers met to frame a new constitution. 8 enclose, box (in); set off: I like the way you've framed that painting. 9 set up, incriminate (fraudulently), trap, entrap: Did Dr Crippen kill his wife or was he framed?
FRAUD|0|n. 1 deception, trickery, cheating, sharp practice, chicanery, deceit, swindling, double-dealing, duplicity, artifice, craft, guile, humbug, humbuggery, treachery, Colloq monkey business, funny business, hanky-panky: The company directors have been convicted of fraud. 2 trick, hoax, swindle, deception, cheat, wile, stratagem, dodge, bilk, ruse, sham, fake, subterfuge, Colloq flimflam, Slang gyp, rip-off, scam: The investigation exposed extensive fraud in the handling of local government funds. 3 deceiver, trickster, cheat(er), impostor, swindler, charlatan, humbug, sharper, shark, bilk(er), quack, mountebank, fake(r), pretender, bluff(er), confidence man, inveigler, defrauder; scoundrel, rogue, Archaic knave; Colloq con man or artist, phoney or US also phony, flimflam artist, flimflammer, US and Canadian four-flusher; Slang US barracuda: He is a fraud who extracts protection money from the elderly.
FREAK|0|n. 1 monstrosity, monster, mutant, deformity: The show features freaks such as a two-headed calf and a bearded lady. 2 anomaly, rarity, abnormality, irregularity, oddity, curiosity, rara avis, rare bird, Brit one-off, Colloq one-shot: Biologists regard the albino giraffe as a freak of nature. 3 whim, caprice, vagary, crotchet, quirk, eccentricity, fancy, idiosyncrasy, peculiarity: The snow in New York in July was a freak. 4 enthusiast, fan, devotee, aficionado; fanatic, addict; Colloq buff, fiend, nut: She's been a jazz freak for years. --adj. 5 freakish, freaky, abnormal, anomalous, extraordinary, unique, rare, atypical, unusual, odd, queer, strange, exceptional, bizarre, weird, unparalleled, unforeseen, unexpected, unpredicted, unpredictable, Brit one-off, Colloq one-shot: He claims he had a freak experience with a lion that had a thorn in its foot.
FRESH|0|adj. 1 new, today's, brand-new; (most) recent, late(st): Don't you love the smell of fresh bread? This is the product of fresh research. 2 new, modern, up to date, novel, original, newfangled, unusual, unconventional, different, alternative, unorthodox: We are seeking a fresh approach. 3 raw, inexperienced, untested, unsophisticated, green, untried, unfledged, immature, untrained, naìve, callow, (still) wet behind the ears, Brit still in nappies; US still in diapers: These troops are too fresh to send into battle. 4 additional, new, further, renewed, extra, supplementary: We need a fresh supply of paper towels. 5 alert, refreshed, vigorous, energetic, invigorated, spry, lively, full of vim and vigour, fresh as a daisy, keen, bright, brisk, active, Colloq bright-eyed and bushy-tailed: Put the horses through the dressage while they are fresh. 6 wholesome, healthy, well, refreshed, glowing, fair, rosy, ruddy, blooming, flourishing: She came back to work fresh from a week's rest. 7 moderate, brisk, strong; cool, clean, pure, clear, unpolluted: Sailing conditions were ideal: a fresh breeze and good visibility. Open the window for some fresh air. 8 bold, impudent, impertinent, brazen, brassy, forward, disrespectful, saucy, pert, cheeky, presumptuous, insolent, rude, Colloq smart-alecky or smart-aleck, US sassy, flip: That fresh kid called her an old bag.
FRISK|0|v. 1 caper, gambol, cavort, frolic, skip, trip, romp, curvet, leap, dance, prance, play, rollick: She was frisking about like a lamb. 2 search, inspect, examine, check (out), go over: At the airport, we were frisked for weapons.
FRONT|0|n. 1 face, faúade, facing, fore-part, anterior; obverse: The front of the door has a painting on it. This dress buttons up the front. 2 frontage, forefront: The front of the property measures only 40 feet. 3 beginning, head, fore, vanguard, forefront, van: At the front of the parade marched the mayor. 4 bearing, demeanour, mien, air, face, countenance, faúade, mask, expression, show, appearance, aspect, look, exterior: Despite her grief, she put on a brave front at the wake. 5 disguise, cover, guise, mask, cover-up, show, pretext, faúade: The restaurant was merely a front for a narcotics operation. 6 movement, organization, league, bloc, party, group, faction, wing: A new popular front was formed out of a coalition of several opposition groups. 7 haughtiness, overconfidence, effrontery: He frightens away potential clients by showing so much front. 8 in front. first, leading, ahead, to the fore, in the forefront, in the vanguard or van, in advance, in the lead, before; winning: In this picture the man in front is my father. My horse was in front all the way. 9 upfront. a See 8, above. b open, straightforward, honest, direct, forthright, frank, candid: Why can't you be upfront instead of conspiring against me? --adj. 10 first, advance, foremost, leading, head; main: The front carriage was smashed in the train wreck. Enter by the front door. --v. 11 overlook, face, look out on or towards, be opposite: Our house fronts the river. The flat fronts on the street. 12 front for. act for, represent; substitute for, replace: I hate formal affairs and hoped that you might front for me.
FRUIT|0|n. Often, fruits. product(s), result(s), revenue(s), outgrowth, outcome, consequence(s), return(s), advantage(s), benefit(s), profit(s), emolument, payment, income, compensation, recompense, desert(s): He didn't live to enjoy the fruit of his work.
GAILY|0|adv. 1 showily, gaudily, brightly, splendidly, brilliantly, colourfully, flashily, flamboyantly, garishly: The dancers appeared in their gaily coloured dresses. 2 happily, cheerfully, cheerily, gleefully, joyously, joyfully, jubilantly, merrily, blithely, light-heartedly, airily, jauntily, insouciantly: The revellers came cavorting gaily down the street.
GAMUT|0|n. range, scale, spectrum, compass, spread, sweep, field, series: Parker said that Hepburn's acting ran the whole gamut of emotions from A to B.
GAUGE|0|v. 1 measure, determine, weigh, calculate, compute, reckon, figure, US technical also gage: Try to gauge the height of that building. 2 judge, evaluate, appraise, assess, rate, estimate, guess, US technical also gage: How can we gauge the strength of the opposition? --n. 3 standard, yardstick, criterion, benchmark, basis, measure, norm, model, example, pattern, rule, touchstone, test, guide, guideline, US litmus test, Technical also gage: You cannot use your compulsive work habits as a gauge for others. 4 scope, capacity, amount, extent, measure, size, dimension(s), magnitude, degree, limit: There are a number of narrow-gauge railways in Wales. What will be the gauge of your involvement in the enterprise?
GAUNT|0|adj. 1 emaciated, scrawny, raw-boned, bony, angular, haggard, skeletal, wasted, starved-looking, cadaverous, scraggy, spindly, meagre, hollow-cheeked, spare, skinny, lank(y), pinched, thin, underweight: We were shocked by the gaunt faces of the famine victims. 2 dreary, dismal, bleak, bare, barren, deserted, desolate, harsh, hostile, unfriendly, inimical, stern, forbidding, stark, grim, forlorn: Under the low cloud, the moor looked even more gaunt than usual.
GENRE|0|n. kind, sort, type, class, style, brand, character, category, genus, species, variety, fashion: Her paintings are in the classicist genre.
GETUP|0|n. 1 costume, outfit; rig: He came in a diver's get-up. 2 format, layout, arrangement, structure, look, style: Who is responsible for the magazine's new get-up?
GHOST|0|n. 1 apparition, phantom, spectre, phantasm, shade, spirit, wraith, poltergeist, banshee, double-ganger, Doppelganger, ghoul, manes, No. Eng. dialect boggart; hallucination, illusion, vision; Colloq spook: The ghost of his uncle appeared before him. 2 hint, suggestion, shadow, trace, scintilla, glimmer: Vera hasn't the ghost of a chance of meeting anyone suitable at the office.
GIANT|0|n. 1 superhuman, titan, colossus, Goliath; giantess, Amazon, ogre; behemoth, monster, leviathan, mammoth: Blocking the road in front of Jack was a giant nearly thirty feet tall. --adj. 2 See gigantic, below.
GIRTH|0|n. 1 circumference, perimeter, ambit, periphery, circuit: His girth steadily expanded as he approached fifty. 2 belt, girdle, border, cincture, waistband, cestus, cummerbund, Archaic zone, US and Canadian cinch: Tighten that girth or the saddle will come off.
GIVEN|0|adj. 1 stated, accepted, agreed(-upon), delineated, confirmed, noted, affirmed, specified, settled, set, (pre)arranged, preordained, foreordained: You must solve the problem using the given information. 2 presupposed, assumed, understood, postulated, premised, conceded, acknowledged, allowed: I think we can take her honesty as given. 3 prone, accustomed, dedicated, addicted, inclined, disposed: Our headmaster is not exactly given to flights of fancy. --n. 4 assumption, donn÷e; fact, certainty, reality, actuality, gospel, the truth: Can we accept her interest in the job as a given?
GLARE|0|n. 1 dazzle, brilliance, brightness, splendour, resplendence, radiance, effulgence, lustre, shine, flame, flare, blaze: We had to shade our eyes from the glare. 2 frown, dirty or nasty or black look, scowl, stare, glower, lower or Brit also lour: She shrank from his fierce glare. 3 garishness, gaudiness, floridity or floridness, flashiness, tawdriness, showiness, ostentation, meretriciousness: His writing is filled with the pomp and glare of rhetoric. --v. 4 frown, give a dirty or nasty or black look, scowl, stare, glower, lower or Brit also lour, look daggers (at): She simply glared at him and he withered.
GLASS|0|n. 1 glassware, crystal: Use the best glass for the party. 2 mirror, looking-glass: He constantly looks at himself in the glass. 3 window, pane, window-pane, plate glass: The children pressed their noses against the glass of the toy shop. 4 tumbler, drinking-glass, beaker, goblet: May I have a glass of beer? 5 barometer: The glass fell as the storm approached. 6 lens, magnifying glass, telescope, spyglass, microscope: Look at this drop of water through the glass. 7 glasses. spectacles, eyeglasses, lorgnon, lorgnette, opera-glasses, binoculars, field-glasses, bifocals, trifocals, goggles, sun-glasses, Colloq specs: These are my reading glasses.
GLEAM|0|n. 1 light, glimmer, glint, glow, flicker, shine, shimmer, glitter, twinkle, spark, flare, glare, flash; beam, ray, shaft: I could just make out the faint gleam of a candle. 2 hint, suggestion, indication, vestige, trace, scintilla, inkling, glimmer, ray, spark, flicker: There wasn't a gleam of hope of rescue. 3 look, glint: He got a strange gleam in his eye when he talked about his inventions. --v. 4 glimmer, glint, shimmer, shine, twinkle, glitter, glisten, beam, sparkle: I could see the beast's eyes, gleaming in the dark. The shore was dotted with gleaming white houses.
GLIDE|0|v. slide, slip, coast, skate, soar, float, sail, glissade, stream, flow: The skiff glided peacefully down the river.
GLOAT|0|v. Often, gloat over. exult (in), glory (in), relish (in), revel (in), crow (over or about), delight (in): He is still gloating over the misery he caused her.
GLOBE|0|n. 1 earth, world, planet, Terra: Our family is scattered all round the globe. 2 sphere, ball, orb; globule: On the table was a lamp with a green glass globe.
GLOOM|0|n. 1 shadowiness, gloominess, shade, shadow, murkiness, murk, dimness, dusk, dullness, dark, darkness, cloudiness, blackness, obscurity: We arose in the gloom of a midwinter's morning. 2 despondency, depression, sadness, dejection, downheartedness, melancholy, woe, sorrow, moroseness, desolation, low spirits, blues, doldrums, despair, dolour, misery, Colloq dumps: The team suffered the gloom of defeat.
GLORY|0|n. 1 honour, fame, repute, reputation, exaltation, celebrity, renown, eminence, distinction, illustriousness, prestige, dignity, immortality: Our soldiers fought for glory not for gain. Even today we sense the glory that was Rome. 2 honour, veneration, reverence, homage, gratitude, glorification, exaltation, worship, adoration, praise, laudation, thanksgiving; benediction, blessing: Glory be to God in the highest. 3 splendour, pomp, magnificence, grandeur, beauty, brilliance, radiance, effulgence, refulgence, excellence, pageantry, nobility, triumph, greatness: Her photographs depict the Amazonian rain forest in all its glory. 4 aureole, nimbus, halo; crown, circlet, corona: A glory surrounds the saint's head in the painting. --v. 5 revel, relish, delight, exult, pride oneself, crow, rejoice, gloat; show off, boast: She sat by the window, glorying in the magnificence of the scenery.
GLOSS|0|n. 1 sheen, lustre, polish, glow, glaze, shine, gleam, burnish, brightness: I prefer a dull gloss to a high polish on furniture. 2 show, faúade, mask, front, surface, veneer, disguise, camouflage, false appearance, semblance: She soon saw through the gloss, and the honeymoon was over. --v. 3 glaze, polish, burnish, shine: Gloss up your shoes a bit. 4 Usually, gloss over. veil, cover up, smooth over, conceal, hide, disguise, camouflage, mask, Colloq whitewash: He tried to gloss over his voting record.
GODLY|0|adj. religious, pious, devout, God-fearing, good, righteous, holy, virtuous, moral, pure, saintly, reverent, pietistic, devoted, faithful: The monks pursue a godly life in their mountain fastness.
GOING|0|adj. 1 thriving, successful, succeeding, prosperous, wealthy, affluent, booming, prospering, flourishing, growing: The Davises took over a failing business and turned it into a going concern. 2 current, present, contemporary, active, effective, accepted, prevailing, prevalent, universal, common, usual, customary: What is the going rate for a skilled cabinet-maker?
GOOEY|0|adj. 1 gluey, sticky, tacky, glutinous, mucilaginous, gummy: The pudding was accompanied by an unpleasantly gooey sauce. 2 sweet, sugary, saccharine, sentimental, unctuous, cloying, syrupy, mawkish, maudlin, Colloq mushy, slushy, sloppy: They like to watch those gooey soap operas.
GORGE|0|n. 1 ravine, canyon, defile, pass, chasm, fissure, crevasse, gully or gulley, wadi or wady, gap, Brit gill or ghyll, US and Canadian notch: Water runs in this gorge only during the rainy season. 2 vomit, vomitus: Injustice makes my gorge rise. --v. 3 fill, stuff, glut, cram; gulp, gobble (down), devour, bolt (down), wolf (down), gormandize, swallow: She acquired the habit of gorging on cream cakes.
GOUGE|0|v. 1 chisel, gash, incise, scratch, groove, dig; scoop or hollow (out): The screwdriver slipped and gouged a piece out of the table. She's so mad she wants to gouge out your eyes. 2 extort, extract, bilk, defraud, wrest, wrench, squeeze, blackmail, Colloq milk, bleed, skin, fleece, cheat, swindle: The gang gouged money from their classmates by threatening to tell the teacher. --n. 3 groove, furrow, scratch, gash, hollow; trench, ditch: The retreating glacier cut a deep gouge in the landscape.
GRACE|0|n. 1 elegance, gracefulness, suppleness, finesse, refinement, ease, polish, poise: She rides well, with an unconscious grace. 2 tastefulness, (good) taste, cultivation, suavity or suaveness, culture, savoir faire, discernment, discrimination, (good) manners, politeness, breeding, consideration, decency, etiquette, tact, propriety, decorum, mannerliness: They had the grace to ignore my rough attire. 3 indulgence, forgiveness, mercy, mercifulness, leniency, compassion, clemency, charity, goodwill, goodness: We survived the fire only by the grace of God. The company gives you 30 days' grace to pay the bill. 4 kindness, favour, kindliness, benevolence, generosity, goodness, graciousness, becomingness, seemliness; excellence, virtue, strength of character, considerateness: At least he had the good grace to admit being wrong. 5 blessing, thanksgiving, prayer, benediction: Grace was said before each meal. --v. 6 adorn, embellish, set off, decorate, ornament, beautify, enhance, garnish: The table was graced by a huge silver candelabrum. 7 dignify, enhance, distinguish, enrich, honour, favour: The dinner-party is graced by your presence.
GRADE|0|n. 1 degree, position, rank, status, stage, standing, station, gradation, echelon, class, level, category, condition, state, estate, situation, rung: She is a singer of the first grade. 2 rating, mark, score: What grade did you get in physics? 3 class, form, year: My daughter is in the third grade. 4 hill, slope, rise, gradient, acclivity, declivity, incline, decline, ascent, descent, upgrade, downgrade: The car coasted down a gentle grade into the lake. 5 make the grade. pass, measure up, succeed, qualify, Colloq US make it, Slang US and Canadian and NZ hack or cut it: Do you think that Simpson can make the grade? --v. 6 classify, class, order, organize, rank, sort, size, group, categorize, rate: Her job is to grade pearls according to their size. 7 mark, rate, correct, evaluate: My teacher was up late grading our exams.
GRAFT|0|n. 1 bud, scion, shoot, splice, implantation or implant, transplant: New varieties were created by the implantation of grafts that have desirable qualities. --v. 2 implant, splice, insert, join: Fruit-bearing stems are grafted onto a sturdy rootstock.
GRAIN|0|n. 1 seed, kernel, stone, pip, pit: Grains from each crop are stored ready for sowing. 2 cereal, corn, grist: The grain harvest was sparse this year. 3 particle, bit, fragment, crumb, speck, granule, morsel, mote, molecule, atom, fleck, iota, ounce, scrap, trace, scintilla, hint, suggestion, whit, jot (or tittle), dab, soupúon, taste, Colloq US and Canadian smidgen or smidgin: There's not a grain of truth in anything that's been said. 4 texture, pattern, fibre, weave, nap: Use a different kind of saw for cutting across the grain.
GRAND|0|adj. 1 large, great, huge, immense, enormous, impressive, imposing, splendid, fine, majestic, stately, lofty, monumental, lavish, magnificent, opulent, luxurious, palatial, sumptuous, Colloq posh: We were led into a grand hall where thousands awaited the emperor. 2 dignified, distinguished, august, respected, eminent, pre-eminent, outstanding, celebrated, illustrious, renowned, notable, legendary, exalted, revered, venerable, immortal: He is regarded as the grand old man of chemistry. 3 flamboyant, overdone, histrionic, ostentatious, pretentious, grandiose, lordly: The abysmal performance was punctuated by the actors' grand strutting and gesturing. 4 complete, total, sum, comprehensive, (all-)inclusive; bottom-line: The grand total of expenses came to ø12,467.22. 5 marvellous, wonderful, outstanding, first-class, first-rate, splendid, excellent, superb, admirable, Colloq great, marvy, smashing, terrific, fantastic, fabulous, fantabulous, super: Isn't it grand that Freda will be able to go! 6 principal, chief, main, head, leading, foremost, highest: The grand vizier was second only to the caliph.
GRANT|0|v. 1 give, confer, bestow, present, award, offer; supply, furnish, distribute, donate; allocate, assign: She has been granted a sum that will enable her to complete the book. 2 concede, accede (to), cede, give (up), agree (to), consent (to), allow, permit, admit; let: They granted my request for clemency. --n. 3 gift, present, endowment, bequest, subvention, subsidy, award, grant-in-aid, donation, contribution, concession, allowance: He received a government grant to study abroad.
GRASP|0|v. 1 grip, grab, seize, clasp, clutch, snatch, hold, take or lay or catch hold of, Colloq nab: I grasped the rope and was pulled to safety. 2 understand, comprehend, appreciate, catch (on), get, get the drift or point of, follow, see, realize, apprehend, learn, Colloq make head(s) or tail(s) of, Slang dig: I am trying to grasp the full import of what you are saying. --n. 3 hold, grip, clutches, clasp, embrace, lock: He loosened his grasp on my throat and I could breathe again. 4 possession, control, power, mastery, sovereignty, suzerainty, hold: By then, even the outer islands had fallen within his grasp. 5 understanding, comprehension, apprehension, awareness, perception, sense: He has a poor grasp of the basics of the subject.
GRASS|0|v. 1 inform, betray, give away, Slang peach, squeal, snitch, squeak, tattle, rat on, sell out, Brit blow the gaff, nark: He received a shorter sentence for grassing on his accomplices. --n. 2 traitor, informer, Slang stool-pigeon, stoolie, squealer, snitch, squeaker, rat, Brit nark: A grass is treated roughly by fellow inmates.
GRATE|0|v. 1 shred, rasp, scrape, rub, triturate: Peel six raw potatoes and grate them fine. 2 scrape, rasp, rub, grind, scratch, screech, stridulate: The cricket grates its legs against its wing covers to produce the 'singing' sound. 3 Often, grate on or upon. annoy, vex, irk, irritate, pester, set one's teeth on edge, jar, fret, chafe, rub (someone) (up) the wrong way, go against the grain, Colloq get on one's nerves: Her voice just grates on me.
GRAVE|0|n. crypt, sepulchre, tomb, vault, mausoleum, last or final resting-place, eternal rest: She began to sob as the coffin was slowly lowered into the grave.
GREAT|0|adj. 1 big, large, huge, immense, enormous, gigantic, giant, grand, extensive, prodigious, colossal, massive, vast, tremendous; spacious, capacious, mammoth, gargantuan, monstrous, titanic, Cyclopean, Brobdingnagian: Europe was covered by a great forest. A great castle loomed before me. 2 large, huge, immense, enormous, gigantic, prodigious, vast, tremendous, abundant, countless: Plague killed a great number of people. 3 extreme, considerable, marked, pronounced, inordinate, extraordinary, significant; excess, excessive: I have something of great importance to tell you. Your news created great confusion. 4 critical, important, crucial, momentous, significant, serious, weighty, consequential: Those were great days for the history of England. 5 important, prominent, major, eminent, celebrated, distinguished, famous, famed, renowned, notable, noteworthy, illustrious, outstanding, well-known, weighty, influential, Rare eximious: What of the great universities, like Oxford and Cambridge? Our mayor thinks of himself as a great man. 6 talented, gifted, excellent, outstanding, exceptional, major, superlative, superior, leading, best, incomparable, matchless, peerless, skilful, artistic, brilliant, first-rate, remarkable, top, accomplished: Flaubert was one of the greatest writers of his age. Tamara is a good dancer, but not a great dancer. 7 lofty, elevated, exalted, noble, high-minded, grand: Great thoughts come from great minds. 8 talented, skilled, skilful, adroit, clever, adept, able, proficient, expert: Daphne is really great at playing bridge. 9 keen, zealous, eager, active, enthusiastic, devoted, ardent, passionate: Frank is a great stamp collector. 10 close, devoted, dedicated, fast, faithful, true, loyal, intimate, loving: Graham and Pembroke quickly became great friends. 11 terrible, bad, awful, unforgivable, horrendous, heinous, grievous, horrific, horrible, terrific, huge, colossal, enormous, gigantic, significant, cardinal, egregious, basic, profound, flagrant,...
GREED|0|n. 1 greediness, avarice, avariciousness, covetousness, acquisitiveness, cupidity, avidity, craving, yearning: Greed accounts for most of man's dishonesty. 2 meanness, stinginess, miserliness, selfishness, niggardliness, penuriousness, parsimony, close-fistedness, penny-pinching, tight-fistedness: From a life of greed he had accumulated enormous wealth. 3 gluttony, voraciousness, edacity, esurience, voracity, overeating, gormandizing, ravenousness, insatiableness: Obesity owes more to greed than to glandular disorder.
GREEN|0|adj. 1 verdant, grassy, fresh, leafy; rural, country-like: Plans call for a green belt to be created around every major city. 2 immature, unripe, unripened; naìve, callow, untested, untrained, unversed, inexperienced, new, raw, unseasoned, unsophisticated, gullible, amateur, unskilled, unskilful, amateurish, non-professional, inexpert, Colloq wet behind the ears: This banana is still too green to eat. Isn't Piers a bit green to be given so much responsibility? 3 environmental, conservationist: The green activists appear to be gaining influence in governmental circles. --n. 4 lawn, sward, common, grassland: Let us meet on the village green at noon. 5 environmentalist, conservationist, preservationist: The greens are opposed to draining the marshes.
GREET|0|v. 1 welcome, receive, usher in, meet: We were greeted warmly by the family. 2 hail, accost, address, salute: People greeted him in the street with a wave and a smile.
GRIEF|0|n. 1 anguish, suffering, agony, misery, wretchedness, pain, hurt, sadness, sorrow, dejection, depression, despondency, melancholy, unhappiness, woe, torment, desolation, heartbreak, remorse, regret, ruth, heartache: Nothing equalled the grief I felt at the death of my dog, Whiffler. 2 distress, trouble, difficulty, tribulation, trial, burden, load, onus, ordeal, travail, affliction, worry, bitterness, curse; adversity, misfortune, evil days, bad or ill fortune or luck, calamity, disaster, catastrophe, trauma: The death of her only child was a lasting grief to Millie. 3 come to grief. fail, go to rack and ruin, meet with disaster, miscarry, fall or come apart, Colloq come unstuck: Our plans for retirement came to grief when my husband went bankrupt.
GRIME|0|n. dirt, filth, soot, mud, muck, slime, scum: The lad began to rub the grime from the old oil lamp.
GRIND|0|v. 1 pound, powder, pulverize, abrade, crush, granulate, mill, grate, rasp, crumble, kibble, mash, triturate, bray, comminute: The rock was soon ground to a fine powder. 2 sharpen, whet; file, smooth, polish: He is grinding the edge to be razor sharp. 3 gnash, grit, grate: He grinds his teeth when he's angry. 4 Also, grind away. labour, toil, slave (away); study, lucubrate, burn the midnight oil, Colloq cram, Brit swot: George has been grinding away at the same job all his life. Languages came easily, but he had to grind away at the sciences. 5 grind down. wear down or away, crush, oppress, subdue, suppress, tyrannize, persecute, maltreat, ill-treat, harry, harass, hound, hector, plague, badger: Dictators first grind down all opposition, then destroy it. 6 grind out. produce, generate, crank out, churn out, turn out: For 20 years he has been grinding out the daily gossip column. --n. 7 toil, labour, drudgery, travail, exertion, task, chore: Working at the checkout counter hour after hour is a terrible grind.
GRIPE|0|v. 1 complain, moan, grumble, whimper, whine, bleat, nag, cavil, carp, grouse, Colloq beef, Brit whinge, Slang bitch, bellyache: It's natural to gripe about the food in the army. --n. 2 complaint, grievance, objection, protest; complaining, moaning, grumbling, whimpering, whining, nagging, cavilling, carping, grousing, Colloq beef, Brit whinging Slang bitching, bellyaching: I don't want to hear any more gripes about the food! 3 Usually, gripes. cramp, twinge, pang, pain, ache, colic, distress, Colloq bellyache: The gripes became so painful that he was sure he had appendicitis.
GROAN|0|v. 1 moan, sigh, murmur, wail, whimper, whine: Unattended patients were lying there, groaning in agony. 2 complain, grumble, grouse, object, protest, Colloq gripe, beef, yammer, Brit whinge, Slang bitch: Now that he's rich, he's groaning about taxes. --n. 3 moan, sigh, murmur, wail, whimper, whine: I thought I heard a groan coming from the attic. 4 complaint, grumble, grousing, muttering, Colloq gripe, griping, beef, yammering, Slang bitching: His announcement that the whole class would be punished was met by groans.
GROPE|0|v. feel, fumble, fish, probe: I groped for the switch in the dark.
GROSS|0|adj. 1 fat, obese, corpulent, overweight, big, large, bulky, great, heavy, ponderous, massive, cumbersome, unwieldy: The gross detective eased his bulk onto a tiny chair. 2 total, aggregate, entire, pre-tax, (all-)inclusive, overall, whole: The gross profit was up by 15 per cent this year. 3 coarse, vulgar, crude, unsophisticated, uncultured, uncultivated, earthy, crass, indelicate, indecent, inappropriate, unseemly, improper, unrefined, bawdy, ribald, Rabelaisian, raw, rude, offensive, obscene, lewd, dirty, smutty, pornographic, filthy: That was too gross a story for mixed company. 4 outrageous, flagrant, obvious, plain, glaring, shameful, blatant, monstrous, heinous, manifest, evident: Her conviction was a gross miscarriage of justice. 5 disgusting, repulsive, repellent, revolting, nauseating: His table manners are truly gross. --v. 6 earn, bring or take in, make: We grossed over a million but netted only 50,000 after expenses. --n. 7 (overall) total, take, intake, takings, receipts, gate: As I said, the gross was over a million.
GRUFF|0|adj. 1 surly, crusty, grumpy, curmudgeonly, cantankerous, sour, peevish, churlish, rude, uncivil, bearish, testy, querulous, irritable, cross, petulant, crabbed, irascible, sullen, sulky, bluff, abrupt, curt, blunt, brusque, short, short-tempered, ill-humoured, ill-natured, bad-tempered, stinging, cutting, biting, acerb, acrimonious, acid, caustic, Colloq grouchy, crotchety: It is difficult to work for someone as gruff as he is. 2 throaty, deep, rough, guttural, rasping, low, husky, hoarse, harsh(-sounding): Instantly I recognized father's gruff voice on the telephone.
GUARD|0|v. 1 protect, shield, safeguard, (keep or stand) watch (over), defend, convoy, escort, police, look after, tend, mind: Only three men will be guarding the bullion when we make our move. 2 control, mind: Guard your tongue - the walls have ears. --n. 3 sentinel, watchman, sentry, security guard, custodian, guardian, protector, picket, watch, bodyguard; evzone, bashibazouk; Brit warder, wardress , Slang screw, Brit minder: The guards go to eat at noon. 4 protection, convoy, escort, patrol: A guard of six men will accompany the van along this route. 5 defence, protection, safety, safeguard, security, shield: This bandage will serve as a guard against infection.
GUESS|0|v. 1 conjecture, estimate, hypothesize, speculate, postulate, Slang guestimate or guesstimate: We guessed that he might try to come in through the window. 2 think, suppose, conclude, assume, believe, dare say, surmise, judge, deem, reckon, imagine, fancy, feel, suspect, divine: I guess you were right about her. --n. 3 conjecture, estimate, hypothesis, speculation, surmise, assumption, judgement, feeling, suspicion, supposition, postulate, theory; guesswork; Colloq shot in the dark, Slang guestimate or guesstimate: My guess as to which card would turn up was wrong.
GUEST|0|n. visitor, company, caller; patron, customer, lodger, boarder, roomer: Our guests get clean linen daily.
GUIDE|0|v. 1 lead, show or lead the way, conduct, shepherd, direct, usher, steer, orient or Brit orientate: She guided me to the proper office. What will guide your judgement in dealing with this situation? 2 steer, pilot, manoeuvre, navigate, direct: He carefully guided the boat between the shoals. 3 counsel, advise, influence, sway; supervise, oversee, handle, manage, superintend, direct, control, regulate, govern: Mr Thrall guided my artistic development from the beginning. 4 instruct, teach, tutor, train: From early youth we were guided by the elders of the community. --n. 5 leader, conductor, director, cicerone, chaperon, mentor, counsel, counsellor, adviser or advisor, guru, master: He served as my guide through the financial jungle. Let your conscience be your guide. 6 model, criterion, exemplar, standard, ideal, example, inspiration: She looked upon the life of Mother Theresa as a guide. 7 beacon, light, signal, guiding light, landmark, lodestar, sign, marker: The Southern Cross was our constant guide sailing round the Horn. 8 handbook, manual, enchiridion, vade-mecum, guidebook, Baedeker: Can you recommend a good guide to English usage?
GUILT|0|n. 1 culpability, guiltiness, criminality, blame, responsibility, blameworthiness; crime, sinfulness, feloniousness, wrongdoing, misconduct: Confronted by the evidence, Shillingworth admitted his guilt. 2 remorse, self-reproach, regret, sorrow, contrition, repentance, shame, contriteness, self-condemnation, bad conscience: That feeling of guilt would plague me for the rest of my life.
GUISE|0|n. 1 appearance, aspect, semblance, look, image, likeness, mien; air, behaviour, conduct, deportment, comportment, bearing, demeanour: This is nothing but an old political concept in a new guise. 2 semblance, disguise, faúade, front, pretence: The treacherous Lothario assumed the guise of a knight in shining armour.
HABIT|0|n. 1 custom, routine, practice, convention, policy, pattern, usage, mode, rule, wont, praxis: Jogging every morning had become a habit. She is a creature of habit. 2 tendency, disposition, manner, practice, way, custom, inclination, bent, predisposition, second nature, frame of mind, attitude, penchant, propensity, proclivity; addiction, compulsion: This kettle has a habit of leaking. Try to control your bad habits. 3 attire, clothing, dress, apparel, clothes, garb, costume, garments, vestments, uniform, raiment, livery, regalia, habiliment(s), Colloq gear: She was disguised in a monk's habit.
HAIRY|0|adj. 1 hirsute, shaggy, downy, fleecy, fluffy, woolly, lanate or lanose, lanuginous or lanuginose, bristly, setaceous, setal, hispid, comate or comose, fringy, crinite, trichoid, strigose or strigous, strigillose; whiskered, bewhiskered, bearded, barbate, unshaven: The creature had a very hairy face. 2 tricky, dangerous, perilous, risky, uncertain, precarious, hazardous, frightening, worrying, nerve-racking or nerve-wracking, Colloq scary: The situation at the office has become very hairy. 3 tangled, intricate, knotty, complex, complicated, difficult, problematic, confused, confusing: The exam contained some hairy questions.
HANDY|0|adj. 1 nearby, accessible, available, at or on or to hand, close (by), convenient, at one's fingertips, within (easy) reach, (at the) ready: Because of the recent break-ins, she keeps a pistol handy. 2 usable, serviceable, manoeuvrable, clever, useful, helpful, practical: A pair of pliers and a screwdriver are the handiest tools. 3 deft, clever, dexterous, adroit, adept, skilled, skilful, proficient, expert: Aunt Sara is very handy with a needle and thread.
HAPPY|0|adj. 1 pleased, delighted, glad, joyous, joyful, overjoyed, jubilant, cheerful, cheery, blithe, blithesome, glad, light-hearted, contented, exhilarated, exultant, cock-a-hoop, elated, exuberant, thrilled, gleeful, euphoric, ecstatic, satisfied, gratified, Colloq on top of the world, on cloud nine, pleased as Punch, tickled pink, Brit in the seventh heaven, over the moon, US in seventh heaven: Her parents were happy that Georgina was married at last. 2 lucky, fortuitous, propitious, fortunate, auspicious, advantageous, beneficial, favourable, felicitous, opportune, timely, well-timed, apt, appropriate: By a happy chance, we were in Bermuda at the same time.
HARDY|0|adj. 1 robust, sturdy, strong, rugged, tough, durable, sound, stalwart, stout, vigorous, able-bodied, red-blooded, fit, hale, healthy, Colloq husky: The pioneers were hardy souls. 2 bold, courageous, daring, valorous, valiant, brave, manly, intrepid, fearless, heroic, plucky: He was among the hardy sailors who went with Magellan.
HARSH|0|adj. 1 rough, coarse, bristly, scratchy, hairy, crude; hoarse, grating, raucous, rasping, husky, guttural; clashing, inharmonious or unharmonious, discordant, atonal, dissonant, cacophonous, strident, shrill, grinding, sour; bitter, sour, acrid: He found harsh the sights, sounds, tastes, and smells of the Casbah. 2 stern, austere, bleak, dour, unkind, unfeeling, comfortless, uncompassionate, unfriendly, grim, hard, Spartan, stringent, over-exacting, Draconian, tyrannical, stark, severe, cruel, abusive, punishing, punitive, brutal, brutish, inhuman, merciless, ruthless, pitiless: Simon is a very harsh taskmaster. 3 unpleasant, disagreeable, impolite, discourteous, uncivil, rude, nasty, curt, abrupt, brusque, bluff, gruff, curmudgeonly, choleric, splenetic, surly, sullen, irascible, short-tempered, petulant, peevish, waspish, grouchy, bilious, cross, acrimonious, sarcastic, acerbic: Why is Maria so harsh to Alan?
HASTE|0|n. 1 swiftness, rapidity, quickness, speed, velocity, expedition, urgency, dispatch or despatch, alacrity, celerity, briskness: We must return to Baker Street with all haste, Watson. 2 hurry, rush, rashness, hastiness, hustle, bustle, impetuousness or impetuosity, recklessness, precipitancy: Haste makes waste.
HASTY|0|adj. 1 quick, speedy, swift, rapid, fast, brisk, prompt, immediate, instantaneous: He made a hasty departure so as not to be late. 2 careless, rash, precipitate, impetuous, impulsive, reckless, thoughtless, unthinking, incautious, heedless, ill-considered, inconsiderate: His was a hasty decision. 3 quick, speedy, cursory, superficial, fleeting, passing, slapdash, perfunctory, momentary, brief: I had a hasty look at the contract, which seemed all right. 4 irritable, quick-tempered, irascible, testy, passionate, impatient, hot-tempered, petulant, waspish, volatile, contentious, choleric, splenetic, bearish, short-tempered, US and Canadian and Irish cranky: Grandfather needn't have been so hasty with the poor child.
HAUNT|0|v. 1 visit, frequent, hang about or around, spend time at, US habituate: She haunts the yacht club, waiting for her ship to come in. 2 beset, obsess, plague, torment, trouble, possess, prey on: He is haunted by the fear that she told the police everything. --n. 3 gathering-place, meeting-place, stamping-ground, Colloq hang-out: She returned to Abergavenny to visit the haunts of her youth.
HEART|0|n. 1 Colloq ticker, pump: The doctor says I have a dicky heart. 2 stomach, nerve, courage, bravery, mettle, will, boldness, pluck, resolution, determination; callousness, insensitivity, heartlessness; Colloq guts, spunk: I haven't the heart to tell him that his hamster died. 3 (basic) nature, core, centre, focus, hub, middle, marrow, pith, essence, quintessence, nucleus, nub, crux, basics, fundamentals, Colloq nitty-gritty: Let's get down to the heart of the matter. 4 sincerity, sentiment(s), feeling(s), spirit, verve, enthusiasm: She's going through the motions, but her heart isn't in her work. 5 humanity, humanitarianism, sympathy, understanding, kindness, kindliness, compassion, empathy, goodness, consideration, concern, soul, tenderness, magnanimity, generosity, sensitivity, sensibility, sentiment, pity, (brotherly) love, affection: Mother Theresa is known for having a lot of heart. Have you no heart, Genghis?
HEAVE|0|v. 1 raise, lift, hoist, haul, pull, draw, tug; move: We heaved in the anchor and made sail. 2 throw, toss, hurl, fling, cast, sling, pitch, let fly, send, launch, Colloq peg, chuck: When he heaved the sword into the lake a hand rose from the waters and caught it. 3 breathe, utter, sigh, groan, moan, gasp: We heaved a sigh of relief when we heard that they had been found. 4 gag, retch, vomit, be sick, regurgitate, disgorge, Colloq throw up, Slang puke, lose one's lunch, return one's dinner, US upchuck, spiff one's biscuits: The smell of petrol always makes me heave.
HEAVY|0|adj. 1 weighty, ponderous, massive, Literary massy; compact, dense: This box is much too heavy for me to lift. 2 abundant, overflowing, excessive, copious, profuse, prodigious, ample, unmanageable: We just crawled along in the heavy traffic. 3 serious, grave, important, crucial, critical, acute: You always bring up heavy topics at the end of the meeting. 4 burdensome, onerous, oppressive, weighty, unbearable, severe, grievous, distressful, sore, intolerable, insupportable or unsupportable, awful: Teenagers often feel that they are weighed down with heavy responsibilities. 5 sad, sorrowful, distressing, grievous, upsetting, depressing, gloomy, sombre, melancholy: Some heavy news has been received from the front. 6 unhappy, miserable, depressed, melancholy, grieving, sad, dejected, downhearted, disconsolate, downcast, despondent, gloomy, heavy-hearted, morose, crestfallen, cheerless: Heavy at heart, he returned to his cheerless home. 7 ponderous, tedious, monotonous, boring, uninteresting, leaden, dull, prosaic, dry, dry-as-dust, stodgy, staid, stuffy, stifling, stultifying: The critics found the style much too heavy for the subject being treated. 8 thick, coarse, broad, blunt, clumsy, ungraceful: These heavy brush-strokes prove that the painting is not a Turner. 9 gloomy, cloudy, overcast, bleak, dismal, dreary, leaden, grey, dark, louring or lowering, threatening: it was another of Scotland's heavy February days. 10 intense, concentrated, severe, forceful, violent, torrential: The snowfall was the heaviest of the year. 11 overweight, fat, obese, stout, chubby, plump, corpulent, portly, paunchy, tubby, Brit podgy or US pudgy, Colloq beer-bellied: The doctor did not say I was too heavy, only that I ought to be six inches taller. 12 weighty, difficult, complex, recondite, arcane, deep, profound, esoteric, incomprehensible, impenetrable, unfathomable: He specializes in some heavy subject like micro-palaeontology. 13 burdened, laden, encumbered, loaded, overloaded, weigh...
HEFTY|0|adj. 1 big, large, bulky, cumbersome, awkward, unwieldy, clumsy, substantial, massive: That's a pretty hefty box for one person to carry. 2 brawny, strong, powerful, burly, muscular, strapping, rugged, robust, Colloq husky, beefy: That hefty man over there is the Olympic weight-lifting champion. 3 substantial, considerable, sizeable, impressive, enormous, huge, Colloq thumping or Brit socking great: I've just received a hefty increase in salary.
HENCE|0|adv. 1 therefore, consequently, thus, accordingly, ergo, as a result, for that or this reason: She has homework to do, hence cannot go to the cinema. 2 away, from here or this place: Get thee hence, you wicked witch! 3 from now, in the future: Where will I be two years hence?
HITCH|0|v. 1 connect, couple, fasten, attach, join, harness, tie, unite, hook (up), link, fix: When I arrived, she was hitching the horses to the wagon. 2 Often, hitch up. raise, pull up, hike (up), tug (up), hoist, yank, jerk, Brit hoick: He hitched up his trousers, tucked in his shirt, and tightened his belt. 3 hitchhike, thumb a lift or ride, Colloq US bum a ride: I had no money and no car, so I hitched here from Newcastle. --n. 4 snag, catch, difficulty, trouble, problem, mishap, handicap, entanglement, interference, impediment, hindrance, obstruction, obstacle: The entire plan went off without any hitch.
HOARD|0|n. 1 supply, stock, store, stockpile, reserve, fund, reservoir, accumulation, collection, cache: They kept a hoard of food in the shelter in case of attack. Occasionally, farmers turn up a hoard of gold coins buried by the ancient Romans. --v. 2 amass, collect, accumulate, pile (up), assemble, gather, put away, stockpile, store, reserve, set aside, save (up), squirrel away, lay in or away or aside or up, Colloq stash away: Hoarding food was against the law during rationing.
HOIST|0|v. 1 lift (up), elevate, raise, heave, uplift, winch: The lifeboat with the survivors aboard is now being hoisted onto the rescue vessel. --n. 2 crane, lift, elevator, davit, winch, tackle: The cable of the hoist broke, and the container dropped onto the pier.
HOTEL|0|n. hostelry, inn, lodging, caravanserai; motel, motor hotel, bed and breakfast or B & B, guest-house, pension, Australian and New Zealand pub, US tourist house: We are staying at a small hotel just outside of town.
HOTLY|0|adv. intensively, energetically, doggedly, persistently, zealously, fervently, fervidly, ardently, warmly, enthusiastically: Hotly pursued by the police, I managed to hide in a culvert.
HOUSE|0|n. 1 residence, dwelling, dwelling-place, home, abode, household, homestead, domicile, lodging(s), quarters, building, edifice: We are playing bridge at my house next Saturday. 2 family, line, lineage, dynasty, clan, ancestry, strain, race, blood, descendants, forebears: She is a member of the royal house of Sweden. 3 legislature, legislative body, congress, parliament, assembly, council, diet: Both houses of the legislature passed the bill. 4 establishment, firm, concern, company, business, organization, enterprise, undertaking, Colloq outfit: He has gone from one publishing house to another with his manuscript. 5 auditorium, theatre, concert-hall: The house is sold out. 6 house of ill repute or ill fame or prostitution, brothel, whore-house, bagnio, bordello, Archaic bawdy-house, Colloq sporting house, crib, Slang US cat-house: She used to run a house in Lambeth. 7 on the house. free, gratis, for nothing, as a gift: Drinks will be on the house tonight to celebrate the tenth anniversary of our opening. --v. 8 shelter, accommodate, domicile, lodge, quarter, put up, take in, board, billet, harbour: We have housed as many as ten people at a time in the cottage. 9 contain, accommodate, quarter: This building houses our computer operations.
HOVEL|0|n. hole, shack, shanty, (pig)sty, pigpen, coop, crib, hut, Colloq US dump: The beggar lives in a hovel near the railway station.
HOVER|0|v. 1 drift, poise, float, hang, be or hang suspended, hang in the air: The humming bird hovers over a flower, drinking its nectar. 2 linger, loiter, wait, hang about or around: The waiter's constant hovering about is making me nervous.
HUMAN|0|adj. 1 mortal, anthropoid, hominoid, android; hominid; Possibly offensive manlike: The aliens from the spaceship had few human characteristics. It is human nature to think. 2 sensitive, defenceless, weak, fallible, vulnerable: She is human, too, and can be easily hurt. 3 kind, kindly, kind-hearted, considerate, charitable, compassionate, merciful, benign, benignant, tender, gentle, forgiving, lenient, benevolent, beneficent, generous, magnanimous, humanitarian, understanding, accommodating, sympathetic, good-natured, humane, sensitive: Human concern for others is in short supply these days. --n. 4 human being, person, individual, woman, man, child, mortal, one, soul, someone, somebody: Humans have long maltreated many of the animals on which they depend.
ICING|0|n. 1 frosting, glaze, coating: Our favourite treat was chocolate cake with chocolate icing. 2 bonus, (fringe) benefit, reward, (extra) added attraction, extra, reward, dividend: He clinched a seventh victory with his partner, putting the icing on the cake of their shared world championship.
IDEAL|0|n. 1 model, paragon, standard, criterion, paradigm, exemplar, pattern, example, epitome: She regarded Florence Nightingale as her ideal. 2 acme, (standard of) perfection, nonpareil: The ideal can rarely be achieved, so you had better settle for reality. 3 ideals. principles, morals, standards: Everyone's ideals are compromised sooner or later. --adj. 4 perfect, excellent, supreme, consummate, complete, model, idyllic: This is an ideal home for a young couple. 5 conceptual, imagined, imaginary, unreal, visionary, idealistic, fictitious, Utopian, notional, mythical or mythic, fantasy, dream, romantic, chimeric(al), illusory, fanciful, fancied: In his ideal world there is no crime, so there is no need for police.
IDIOM|0|n. 1 language, tongue, speech, vernacular, dialect, argot, patois, jargon, cant, idiolect, parlance, faúon de parler, phraseology: The play is written in a rather old-fashioned idiom. 2 expression, (set) phrase, phrasing, locution, clich÷: The term red herring , an idiom meaning 'false trail', is used of something which is neither red nor a herring.
IDLER|0|n. loafer, layabout, slacker, shirker, sluggard, lazybones, slugabed, laggard, dawdler, clock-watcher, drone, slouch, ne'er-do-well, fain÷ant, Colloq lounge lizard, Military slang US gold brick or gold-bricker: To fill out a crew we often recruited men from among waterfront idlers.
IMAGE|0|n. 1 likeness, representation, picture, sculpture, statue, effigy, figure, portrait, simulacrum; icon or ikon, idol, graven image, fetish, tiki: Images of BolÂvar can be seen in every town square in Venezuela. The tribesmen still worshipped golden images of their gods. 2 epitome, duplicate, copy, counterpart, facsimile, replica, double, twin, Doppelgänger, clone, Colloq spitting image or spit and image, (dead) ringer: He's the image of father. He stared at his image in the mirror. 3 impression, concept, conception, perception, idea, perception, notion, mental picture: You are quite different from my image of you. 4 epitome, representative, model, (typical) example, essence, archetype, embodiment, incarnation, personification, materialization, reification, corporealization: For us, she was the very image of what a leader should be. 5 figure (of speech), trope, metaphor, allusion, simile, symbol: The poem contains images that are obscure unless you know Greek myths. 6 form, appearance, likeness, guise, semblance, aspect, mould, cast: Man claims to be created in God's image.
IMPLY|0|v. 1 suggest, hint (at), intimate, insinuate: Are you implying that I don't know what I'm talking about? 2 connote, allude to, refer to, advert to, signify, signal, betoken, denote, indicate, mean, express; involve, include, evidence, assume, presume, entail: Silence sometimes implies consent. Discovery of the tools implies a more advanced culture.
INANE|0|adj. silly, asinine, vapid, vacant, vacuous, absurd, fatuous, foolish, senseless, nonsensical, unreasonable, preposterous, ludicrous, ridiculous, laughable, risible, mad, lunatic, crazy, stupid, dumb, idiotic, moronic, imbecilic, Colloq nutty, nuts, daft, daffy, screwy, batty, dippy, wacky, cuckoo, loony, goofy, Brit bonkers, dotty: Students seem especially prone to inane behaviour.
INCUR|0|v. bring upon or on (oneself), draw, attract, arouse, provoke, invite, expose (oneself) to, lay (oneself) open to: For some reason he incurred the displeasure of his manager.
INEPT|0|adj. 1 clumsy, awkward, bungling, maladroit, ungainly, bumbling, gauche, inexpert, unskilled, unskilful, incompetent, inefficient: If he is inept at sailing, he'd better become proficient. 2 inappropriate, inapt, unseemly, improper, unfitting, unfit, unsuitable, impolitic, undiplomatic, injudicious, imprudent, indiscreet, ill-considered, ill-judged, ill-advised, unadvised, unadvisable or inadvised, misguided, inexpedient, out of place, unwise: She made some inept comment and blushed furiously.
INERT|0|adj. 1 inactive, unreactive, unresponsive, neutral: Argon, xenon, and neon are inert gases. 2 motionless, immobile, inanimate, lifeless, still, quiet, quiescent, stationary, static: He was mute and inert: it was like talking to a zombie. 3 sluggish, slow, torpid, dull, inactive, idle, indolent, lazy, slothful, leaden, slack, passive, supine, dormant, otiose, listless, languid or languorous: I contemplated the inert bodies sunbathing around the swimming-pool.
INFER|0|v. deduce, derive, draw, conclude, understand, gather, surmise, guess, assume: From the evidence, I infer that you were not at home last night.
ISSUE|0|n. 1 outflow, outgoing, exit, egress, issuance, emanation, efflux, debouchment, emergence, outlet: The river's colour changed abruptly at its point of issue into the sea. 2 outcome, conclusion, consequence, culmination, result, end, effect, consummation, event, climax, Colloq pay-off: Whatever the issue, it has been a brave effort. 3 point, topic, subject, matter, affair, problem, question: That is an issue you should take up with the mayor. 4 Usually, major issue. (major or big) problem or difficulty, controversy, fight, dispute, cause c÷lëbre: He turns even walking the dog into a major issue. 5 printing, edition, version; copy, number: I have a copy of the Sunday issue. See if you can buy an issue of today's paper. 6 publication, promulgation, issuance, issuing, distribution, delivery, dissemination, broadcasting, proclamation, circulation: There will be a special issue of stamps to commemorate his death. 7 offspring, child or children, descendant(s), progeny, young, scion(s), son(s), daughter(s): According to the records, your uncle died without issue, making you his sole heir. 8 at issue. in contention, in dispute, unresolved, unsettled, uncertain, up in the air, to be decided: The point at issue is which system will be the most efficient. 9 take issue. disagree, argue, contend, dispute, oppose, take exception: I feel that I must take issue with your conclusion. --v. 10 proclaim, promulgate, declare, publish, put out, put or set forth, announce, circulate, distribute, get out, release, deliver, broadcast, disseminate, get out: The kidnappers have issued an ultimatum. 11 emerge, come or go forth, exit, emanate, discharge, stream, flow, pour; appear, originate, spring, stem, arise: The play ended, and people issued from the theatre. Where Pegasus stamped his foot the Pierian spring issued forth.
JOINT|0|n. 1 seam, union, juncture, connection, junction, intersection: The joint won't show after the whole thing's been painted. 2 Slang dive, dump, US and Canadian honky-tonk: We went into a joint in Soho, looking for some action. 3 roast: Who carves the Sunday joint at your house? --adj. 4 shared, mutual, combined, collective, cooperative, common, communal, collaborative: Our aims can only be achieved by joint effort.
JOLLY|0|adj. 1 merry, cheerful, frolicsome, gay, jovial, joyful, sportive, convivial, jocund, jocose, jocular, frisky, coltish, playful, festive, jubilant, cheery, exuberant, high-spirited, animated: Everyone was in a jolly mood at her birthday party. --v. 2 Often, jolly along. humour, appease, deceive, string along, fool, hoax: They're just jollying him along because they want him to invest in their scheme.
JUICE|0|n. 1 extract, liquid, fluid: The recipe calls for the juice of one lemon. 2 essence, pith, extract, vigour, force, vitality, spirit, strength, power: He really squeezed the juice out of my argument.
JUNTA|0|n. junto, cabal, clique, faction, gang, coterie, band, set, camarilla: After the coup, the country was run by a military junta.
KNOCK|0|v. 1 strike, hit, rap, thwack, whack, thump, bang, tap: Knock on the door. He knocked the man on the head with his walking-stick. 2 Colloq criticize, deprecate, carp or cavil at, disparage, put down, run down: Don't knock something till you've tried it. 3 knock about or around. a wander, roam, ramble, rove, travel, gad about: She's going to knock about the world for a bit before settling down. b associate with, consort with: He was only knocking about with some of the boys. c discuss, debate, talk over, Colloq kick about or around: I have a business proposition that I want to knock around with you. d beat (up), maltreat, mistreat, maul, manhandle, batter, abuse, hit, strike: He's been known to knock his wife about. 4 knock down. a raze, demolish, destroy, level, wreck, lay in ruins, throw or pull down: They knocked down those beautiful old houses and erected an ugly office block in their place. b fell, floor, cut down: As soon as he got up, McCloskey knocked him down again. 5 knock off. Colloq a stop work(ing), quit, go home, clock off or out, terminate, lock up, close down: I think I'll knock off for a few hours' rest. b steal, pilfer, thieve, rob, Colloq lift, Brit pinch, Slang Brit nick, US knock over: Two men in balaclavas knocked off the bank in the High Street. c See kill, 1. d make quick or short work of, complete, finish, bring to an end, Colloq polish off: He knocked off that book in a week. e US copy, imitate: They knock off expensive items, then sell them for much less than the originals. 6 knock out. a knock or render unconscious, floor, prostrate, trounce, whip, Slang flatten, K.O. or kayo: The smart money says that the challenger will knock out the champion in the third round. b overwhelm, overcome, daze, stagger, astound, astonish, bewilder, stun, Colloq bowl over, blow (someone's) mind, Slang Brit knock for six: She'll really knock them out in that dress! 7 knock up. a knock or put together, improvise: I think I can knock up something quickly that wi...
LABEL|0|n. 1 identification, identifier, ID, mark, marker, earmark, tag, ticket, sticker, stamp, imprint, hallmark, brand, Brit docket: The label shows the weight, composition, and price of the contents. A proper shipping label should show both source and destination. 2 name, denomination, designation, appellation, nickname, epithet, sobriquet, classification, characterization, description: It is difficult to give a label to the kind of novels she writes. 3 trade mark, trade name, brand, logo, mark: Many supermarket chains market products under their own label. --v. 4 identify (as), mark, tag, earmark, ticket, stamp, hallmark, imprint, brand, Brit docket: In those days, every liberal was labelled a communist. Prepared food packages must be labelled with their ingredients. 5 name, denominate, designate, call, term, dub, classify, categorize, pigeon-hole, class, characterize, describe, portray, identify, Colloq US peg: We cannot label Voltaire either spiritualist or materialist.
LANCE|0|n. 1 spear, pike, javelin, assegai; lancet: He transfixed the knight with his lance, and claimed victory in the joust. --v. 2 pierce, stab, puncture, prick, incise, open, slit: The boil must be lanced at once to draw out the poison.
LAPSE|0|n. 1 slip, error, mistake, fault, failing, oversight, blunder, shortcoming, omission, Formal lapsus, Colloq slip-up, fluff, goof: Apart from a brief lapse, the child behaved very well. Owing to a lapse, your payment was not credited. 2 gap, break, interval, intermission, interruption, pause, lacuna, hiatus, Prosody caesura, Colloq hold-up: Listeners in Scotland experienced a lapse in transmission, for which we apologize. 3 decline, lowering, fall, deterioration, drop, diminution, descent: There has been a serious lapse in church attendance. --v. 4 decline, lower, fall, drop, diminish, sink, slip, slump, subside, deteriorate: Despite the doctor's best efforts, he lapsed into a coma. 5 run out, expire, be discontinued, become void, terminate, end, cease, stop: Your option to sell the shares at the offering price lapses on Friday. 6 pass, elapse, go by, slip away: Three months had lapsed since she last saw him.
LARGE|0|adj. 1 big, great, broad, stout, heavy, thickset, chunky, stocky, heavy-set, brawny, husky, sturdy, hefty, muscular, strapping, burly, solid, weighty, corpulent, fat, obese, rotund, portly, adipose, beamy, overweight: Two large gentlemen came up and offered to help me find the door. 2 big, generous, bountiful, charitable, eleemosynary, philanthropic, open-handed, magnanimous, munificent, unselfish, big-hearted, large-hearted, substantial, considerable, ample, beneficent, liberal; goodly, kind, good; Colloq tidy: We have to thank Mr Wilson for large donations to our Christmas fund. 3 big, huge, ample, enormous, gigantic, immense, colossal, monumental, massive, mammoth, Brobdingnagian, gargantuan, elephantine, monstrous, staggering, sizeable, substantial, wide, broad, capacious, extensive, Colloq jumbo, US humongous, ginormous: The house has a large dining room. Supertankers are the largest ships afloat. --adv. 4 big, prominently, overwhelmingly, imposingly, eminently, pre-eminently: The problem looms large in the history of biology. --n. 5 at large. a free, unfettered, at liberty, on the loose, unconfined, unrestrained: One of the robbers is still at large. b generally, mainly, in general, chiefly, as a whole, in a body, altogether, in the main: The people at large support reductions in taxes.
LASSO|0|n. 1 lariat, rope, SW US reata or riata: The cowboy tossed the lasso round the calf's neck. --v. 2 rope: He lassoed steers to practise for the rodeo.
LEAFY|0|adj. green, verdant, bosky, woody, shady, shaded, arborescent: We lay beneath the leafy bowers and dreamed of summers past.
LEARN|0|v. 1 Often, learn of. find out, discover, hear (of), chance or hit upon, understand, gather, have revealed to one; determine, ascertain, uncover: I learned today that you are leaving. I learned of your plans yesterday. 2 be taught, be instructed in, master, become proficient (in), acquire knowledge (of): I learned German at school. 3 understand, see the light, get the picture, Colloq catch on, get the idea, get it, Brit twig: No matter how often they are told, some people never learn. 4 memorize, commit to memory, learn by heart: Bolton was told to learn his part by the next day.
LEASE|0|n. 1 rental agreement or contract, sublease, sublet: A new ten-year lease will be signed tomorrow. --v. 2 rent (out), let (out), sublet (out), sublease (out), charter (out), hire (out): They leased their home to us for the summer. We arranged to lease their boat for the weekend.
LEAVE|0|v. 1 go (away or off), depart, set off, be off, get away or off, retire, retreat, withdraw, decamp, (make an) exit, run, be gone, bid (someone or something) goodbye, say goodbye or adieu (to), take (one's) leave (of), quit, desert, pull out, check out, fly, Colloq push or shove off, take off, skedaddle, flit, disappear, do a disappearing act, pull up stakes, up-anchor, Slang beat it, scram, vamoose, split, Brit beetle off, do a bunk, do a moonlight flit, hop it, Taboo slang Brit bugger off: Please leave at once. May I leave the room? She left him alone. 2 go or run off, deviate from: The car left the road and hit a tree. 3 forget, mislay, lose: I left my car keys somewhere in the house. 4 abandon, desert, take leave of, wash one's hands of, turn one's back on; quit, resign from, give up, renounce, drop (out of): She left him because he mistreated her. I left school at sixteen. 5 make, render, cause to be or become or remain: The beauty of the place left me speechless. 6 bequeath, will, hand down, devise, demise, transfer: Her aunt left some valuable paintings to my wife. 7 entrust, commit, assign, cede, relinquish, give over or up, consign, resign: They are leaving all the responsibility to me. 8 cause or allow to remain, have as a remainder, yield, give: Seven from eleven leaves four. 9 leave off. stop, cease, desist, forbear, give up, refrain from, discontinue, abstain (from), renounce: He won't leave off gossiping about her. 10 leave out. omit, disregard, ignore, neglect; count out, reject, exclude, eliminate, bar, except: You left out the best part. Don't leave me out of the fun!
LEDGE|0|n. shelf, projection, step, mantel or mantle, mantelpiece or mantlepiece, overhang, sill: We stood on a small ledge of rock unable to move.
LEERY|0|adj. suspicious, sceptical, dubious, doubtful, doubting, distrustful, wary, cautious, chary, careful: I was very leery of his story.
LEGAL|0|adj. 1 lawful, licit, statutory, acceptable, permissible, permitted, admissible, authorized: The police officer was found to have exceeded his legal authority. 2 legitimate, proper, right, rightful, sound, constitutional, authorized, Slang legit: I question whether his business is legal. Who is the legal heir? 3 judicial, juridical, judiciary, forensic: The case is without legal precedent.
LETUP|0|n. cease, stop, stopping, ceasing, cessation, surcease, break, interruption, pause, intermission, suspension, time out or off; moderation, lessening, abatement, diminution, relief, hesitation, respite, relaxation: I was nagged without let-up about getting the work done by the end of the month.
LIBEL|0|n. 1 defamation, vilification, denigration, denunciation, deprecation, depreciation, belittlement, disparagement, derogation, disgrace, ill repute, dishonour, obloquy, shame, humiliation, mortification: His entire conversation is a perpetual libel on his acquaintances. 2 slander, calumny, lie, falsehood, prevarication, untruth, misrepresentation, aspersion, innuendo, insinuation, slur, smear, blot, stain, smirch, stigma: For years he suffered the libels circulated by his ex-mistress. --v. 3 defame, vilify, denigrate, denounce, deprecate, depreciate, belittle, disparage, derogate, disgrace, dishonour, shame, humiliate, mortify: He claims to have been libelled by an article in the newspaper. 4 slander, calumniate, lie about, misrepresent, asperse, insinuate, slur, smear, malign, stain, blacken, discredit, besmirch, stigmatize, traduce, vilify, Rare vilipend, Colloq chiefly US bad-mouth: There is often a fine line between libelling a person and exercising freedom of speech.
LIGHT|0|n. 1 illumination, brightness, daylight, lamplight, candlelight, firelight, gaslight, torchlight, starlight, moonlight, sunlight; gegenschein, counterglow: There is just enough light for me to read the label. 2 lamp, light-bulb, torch, beacon, lantern, candle, flare, headlight or headlamp, street-light or street lamp, US and Canadian flashlight: I saw a light in the distance. Someone turned off the lights. 3 radiance, radiation, luminescence, glare, gleam, glow, reflection, luminosity, shine, sparkle, scintillation, incandescence, phosphorescence, fluorescence: The light of the full moon shone through the window. 4 daybreak, dawn, sunrise, US sun-up: We leave at first light. 5 clarification, enlightenment, insight, understanding, elucidation, simplification, explanation: After an hour's talk with his lawyer, he finally saw the light and confessed. Can you shed a little light on this problem, Robyn? 6 window, window-pane: The west wall has three windows of six lights each. 7 match, lighter, spill, taper, fire, flame, ignition: Can you give me a light for my cigarette? 8 highlight: Note the chiaroscuro effect from the lights and shadows in the drawing. 9 bring to light. reveal, unearth, find, uncover, unveil, discover, expose, disclose, make known: A vital fact has recently been brought to light. 10 come to light. be revealed, be unearthed, be uncovered, be unveiled, be discovered, be exposed, be disclosed, appear, come out, turn up, transpire, develop, evolve, emerge: The truth about her parents has finally come to light. 11 Brit in the light of or US in light of. considering, in view of, in consideration of, taking into account, keeping or bearing in mind: In the light of his condition, he has decided to pull out of the competition. 12 shed or throw (some, a little) light on. explain, elucidate, simplify, clarify: Perhaps you could throw some light on the reason why she refuses to leave the house. --adj. 13 (well-)illuminated, bright, alight, (well-)lit, (well-)ligh...
LIKEN|0|v. compare, equate, match, juxtapose: How can you liken him to Mahatma Gandhi?
LIMBO|0|n. in limbo. up in the air, consigned to oblivion, in abeyance, suspended, hanging (fire), neither here nor there, Colloq on hold, treading water, holding one's breath, US in a holding pattern, on the shelf, on the back burner: My career is in limbo till I learn the result of the interview.
LIMIT|0|n. 1 Sometimes, limits. extent, bound(s), end, limitation, check, curb, restriction, restraint: Is there no limit to how far you will go to get your own way? 2 Often, limits. border, edge, end, extent, boundary, bound(s), (boundary or border or partition) line, frontier, perimeter, periphery: That row of poplars marks the limit of the property to the east. 3 Often, limits. area, territory, confines, zone, region, quarter, district, precinct(s): Stay outside the three-mile limit. We have jurisdiction only within city limits. 4 the limit. a the end, the last straw, the straw that broke the camel's back, all (that) one can take, enough, too much, Colloq it: Your presumption is the absolute limit - you can't seriously expect me to lend you money. b outrage, joke, surprise, Colloq caution: Wasn't Nigel the limit in that hat!? --v. 5 check, curb, bridle, restrict, restrain, hold in check: We must limit spending on arms. The shackles limited my movements. 6 restrict, confine, delimit, narrow, focus, guide, channel: Please limit your questions to the subject at hand. 7 set, define, determine, fix: The bank manager has limited my overdraft to half what it was.
LINEN|0|n. Often, linens. bedclothes, bed linen(s), sheets and pillowcases; table linen(s), napery, tablecloths and napkins; bath linen(s), towels and wash-cloths: The soiled linen is sent to the laundry.
LINGO|0|n. jargon, argot, cant, patois, pidgin, Creole, parlance, vernacular, dialect, idiom, language, talk, speech; gobbledegook or gobbledygook, gibberish, mumbo-jumbo: In medical lingo, he is suffering from coryza - in other words, a cold.
LIVEN|0|v. Often, liven up. 1 brighten, cheer, enliven, perk up: You need some fresh paint to liven up the outside of the house. 2 invigorate, stimulate, energize, inspirit, activate, animate, fire, stir (up), put (some) life into, enliven, perk up, Colloq pep up: We need a good dance band to liven up the place in the evenings.
LOATH|0|adj. loth, unwilling, reluctant, averse, disinclined, indisposed: I was loath to tell my wife where I had been.
LOBBY|0|n. 1 foyer, entrance-hall, vestibule, entry, US entry-way; reception (room or area), waiting-room, corridor, hall, hallway: We were to meet in the main lobby of the arts centre. 2 special-interest group, pressure group, lobbyist: A powerful lobby has been formed to influence farming legislation. --v. 3 (bring) pressure (to bear), (exert) influence, persuade, pull strings or wires, put one's weight behind, sway, press, push, promote, urge, Brit pressurize: Environmentalists are lobbying for a ban on fluorocarbons.
LOCAL|0|adj. 1 neighbourhood, neighbouring, nearby, close by; adjoining: She works for a local butcher. The law affects only the local area. 2 provincial, regional, district, state, county, shire, municipal, city, town, village, neighbourhood; restricted, limited, specific, particular, peculiar: Clean water is a general, not a local problem. --n. 3 resident, native, townsman, townswoman, townsperson: The locals all voted against the proposition. 4 neighbourhood pub: He stopped in at his local on the way home.
LODGE|0|n. 1 hunting-lodge, cabin, chalet, cottage, house; gatehouse, shelter, hut: I have a small lodge in the mountains. 2 branch, chapter: He belongs to the Manchester lodge of the Masons. --v. 3 reside, live, dwell, abide, stay, stop, room, occupy rooms: For years they lodged together at 221B Baker Street. 4 accommodate, board, put up, billet, quarter, house, take in; shelter, harbour: Mrs Mulrooney is lodging a student in her spare room. Her house cannot lodge more than three. 5 stick, wedge, catch, deposit, become stuck or wedged or fixed or caught or deposited, embed itself, become embedded: I've got an apple pip lodged in one of my back teeth. 6 register, enter, record, submit, bring forward, set forth or out, file: We lodged a complaint against our neighbours because of the noise.
LOGIC|0|n. 1 reasoning, deduction, dialectics, ratiocination, inferential or scientific reasoning: Mill defined logic as the science of proof, or evidence. 2 (good or common) sense, sound judgement, wisdom, presence of mind: According to Disraeli, England was not governed by logic. 3 reasonableness, intelligence, judiciousness, practicality, rationality: Your logic is valid, but you are forgetting the human factor.
LOOSE|0|adj. 1 unattached, unconnected, disconnected, detached, free, unsecured, unfastened, movable: I have a loose tooth. The vacuum cleaner will pick up any loose bits. 2 unconfined, untied, unfettered, released, freed, unshackled, unchained; free, at liberty, at large, on the loose, untrammelled: In Pamplona, they allow loose bulls to run through the streets to the arena. 3 unconfining, free-flowing, flowing, baggy, slack, hanging: That skirt is loose on you since you lost weight. 4 disordered, disorganized, unbound, untied, messy; strewn or spread or tossed or thrown about or around, scattered (about or around), in disorder, in disarray, dispersed: On the desk was a loose pile of papers. 5 rambling, disconnected, unstructured, unconnected, discontinuous, non-specific, unspecific, indefinite, imprecise, inexact, inaccurate, free, broad, rough, offhand, casual, careless, untidy, sloppy, slapdash, general, vague: He gave a loose description of his assailant. A loose translation does not convey the flavour of the original. 6 lax, relaxed, negligent, careless, sloppy: Discipline has been quite loose around here lately. 7 wanton, dissolute, debauched, immoral, promiscuous, abandoned, fast, libertine, profligate, licentious, lewd, perverted, corrupt: She was quickly gaining a reputation for being a loose woman. --adv. 8 break loose. escape, flee: The boy broke loose from my grasp and ran to greet his mother. 9 hang or stay loose. relax, stay or keep calm or cool, cool off or down, sit back, take it easy: Hang loose and everything will be all right. 10 let or set or turn loose. discharge, let go (with); emit, give out (with), fire: They let him loose after questioning. She let loose a stream of invective like a fishwife. --v. 11 let go, (set) free, release, let or set or turn loose; liberate, deliver: Ten thousand balloons were loosed in the celebration. 12 untie, undo, unfasten, let go, disengage, relax, ease, loosen, slacken;, cast off: Loose these ropes, please. 13 let go, ...
LOSER|0|n. also-ran, misfit, failure, fiasco, non-starter, Colloq flop, dud, washout, bummer, lead balloon, lemon, born loser, Brit damp squib, Brit and Australian no-hoper, US clinker, nebbish, schlemiel or schlemihl or shlemiel, schlimazel or shlimazel or shlimazl, schnook, sad sack: Dick is a real loser and will never amount to anything. His idea for a company newsletter was a loser.
LOUSY|0|adj. 1 awful, terrible, mean, contemptible, low, base, hateful, detestable, despicable, vile, wretched, miserable, scurvy, dirty, vicious, Colloq rotten: Telling tales to the teacher was a lousy thing to do. 2 bad, poor, awful, terrible, inferior; low-quality, shoddy, shabby, inferior, miserable, second-rate, wretched: We had lousy seats for the theatre last week. The dealer seems to have sold you a really lousy car. 3 pedicular, pediculous, Brit lice-infested, lice-ridden, US louse-infested, louse-ridden: Even lice are lousy - they have their own parasites. 4 lousy with. alive with, overloaded with, swarming with, teeming with, Colloq crawling with, knee-deep in: In five minutes the place was lousy with cops.
LOVER|0|n. See love, 3, above.
LOWER|0|v. 1 drop, reduce, decrease, mark down, discount, lessen, diminish, downgrade, cut, slash: Prices on all goods have been lowered. 2 let or move or bring or put down, drop: The drawbridge was lowered and the knights rode across. They lowered the coffin into the grave. 3 cut or lop off, cut or take down, reduce, diminish, crop, trim: We lowered the hedge by a foot. 4 abase, debase, degrade, discredit, shame, disgrace, demean, belittle, humble, humiliate; stoop, deign, condescend: I wouldn't lower myself to so much as speak to him. 5 turn down, quieten, moderate, modulate, soften, tone down: He lowered his voice to a whisper. --adj. 6 further or farther down: My mother has a flat on a lower floor of the building. 7 earlier: These primitive amphibians are from the Lower Carboniferous. 8 lower case. small, minuscule: Use capitals for the first letters and lower case for the rest in these names.
LOWLY|0|adj. See low°, 7, above.
LOYAL|0|adj. faithful, true, dependable, devoted, trustworthy, trusty, steady, steadfast, staunch, trusted, reliable, stable, unswerving, unwavering, dedicated, constant, patriotic: Give me twelve men loyal and true and we shall rout the enemy.
LUCKY|0|adj. 1 fortunate, blessed, favoured, charmed: She was very lucky to get the job. 2 providential, timely, opportune, propitious, favourable, auspicious, advantageous, convenient, fortuitous: It was lucky that you were at the swimming pool to save her.
LUNGE|0|n. 1 thrust, jab,, strike: He was impaled by the first lunge of the sword. 2 dive, plunge, rush, leap, jump, spring, pounce: I made a lunge for the knife but missed. --v. 3 dive, plunge, charge, pounce, dash, bound, jump; thrust, stab, strike, hit, jab, cut: He lunged at her with his machete.
LURCH|0|n. leave in the lurch. desert, abandon, forsake; drop, jilt: He left her in the lurch, waiting at the church.
LURID|0|adj. 1 sensational, vivid, shocking, startling, graphic, melodramatic: The tabloids delight in a lurid scandal. 2 ghastly, horrid, horrifying, horrendous, gory, grisly, gruesome, macabre, revolting, disgusting, appalling, frightful, terrible, awful: Every lurid detail of the massacre was shown on TV. 3 pale, ashen, sallow, wan, pallid, ghastly, baleful: From the lurid shade of his skin, I could see he had some horrible affliction. 4 glaring, fiery, flaming, burning, aglow, glowing, glowering: The burning city cast a lurid light in the sky.
LUSTY|0|adj. 1 vigorous, healthy, strong, energetic, robust, hale and hearty, lively; buxom: The sailors were accompanied by a couple of lusty young women. 2 vigorous, substantial, strong, husky, powerful: He sang in a lusty voice.
LYING|0|n. 1 prevarication, fibbing, mendacity, mendaciousness, falsification, untruthfulness, perjury; dishonesty, deceit, duplicity: She was accused of lying while under oath. --adj. 2 untruthful, false, mendacious, hypocritical, dishonest, deceitful, deceptive, duplicitous, treacherous, perfidious: Whoever told you they had found the solution is a lying scoundrel.
LYRIC|0|adj. 1 melodic, song-like, musical, melodious, lyrical: Lyric drama is no longer fashionable. 2 personal, subjective, individual, idiosyncratic; sentimental, rhapsodic: He expresses his own feelings in the lyric poems. 3 sweet, dulcet, graceful, silvery, lilting, mellifluous, mellow, light: This song sounds best when sung by a lyric tenor. --n. 4 lyrics. libretto, book, words: Ira Gershwin wrote the lyrics for much of George Gershwin's music.
MACHO|0|adj. manly, masculine, virile, proud, arrogant: He's afraid his macho image will be destroyed if he admits to enjoying ballet.
MAGIC|0|n. 1 witchcraft, sorcery, wizardry, black magic, necromancy, black art, voodoo, obeahism, devilry or deviltry, diabolism, demonolatry, occultism; sortilege, theurgy, white magic; spell: As the magic began to work, he slowly changed into a horrible ghoul. 2 legerdemain, conjuring, prestidigitation, sleight of hand, illusion, hocus-pocus, trickery: He performs tricks of magic, including sawing a woman in half. 3 enchantment, allure, allurement, charm, bewitchment, spell, witchery, witchcraft, wizardry, glamour, fascination, magnetism, ensorcellment: She worked her magic on every man she met. --adj. 4 magical, miraculous: The magic ointment made her young again. 5 necromantic, occult, mystic, shamanistic, theurgical: Using a magic spell, she turned him into a toad. 6 magical, enchanting, entrancing, bewitching, fascinating, hypnotic, mesmerizing, entrancing, spellbinding, charming, magnetic, ensorcelling: The music had a magic effect on them.
MAJOR|0|adj. 1 larger, greater, bigger, main, chief, important: Henderson grabbed the major portion of the credit. 2 vital, important, critical, crucial, principal, foremost, paramount, primary, prime, main, big, biggest, pre-eminent, notable, noteworthy, significant, outstanding, dominant, dominating; serious, grave, worst: The major problem in commercial kitchens is sanitation.
MANGY|0|adj. scruffy, dirty, sleazy, wretched, miserable, repulsive, sorry, squalid, slovenly, unkempt, filthy, dingy, seedy, poor, shabby, mean, low, ignominious, base, abject, odious, disreputable, moth-eaten, contemptible, despicable, nasty, scurvy: The mangy beggar turned out to be our agent in Calcutta.
MANIA|0|n. 1 rage, craze, passion, obsession, compulsion, urge, fascination, preoccupation, furore or US furor, yearning, craving, desire, cacoethes, Colloq fad, yen: By that time, the hula hoop mania had died down. She has a mania for collecting apostle spoons. 2 madness, lunacy, insanity, dementia, derangement, hysteria, Technical manic disorder: The psychiatrists diagnosed his problem as a mania.
MANLY|0|adj. manful, virile, courageous, bold, brave, intrepid, valorous, valiant, dauntless, fearless, plucky, daring, venturesome, stout-hearted, resolute, stable, steadfast, unflinching, unwavering, unshrinking, chivalrous, gallant, noble, heroic; masculine, male, Colloq macho, red-blooded: Emerson characterized the English as manly rather than warlike.
MARCH|0|v. 1 parade, step, stride, strut, tread, pace, walk: They marched from Baxter Street to the Town Hall. --n. 2 parade, procession, demonstration, cortege or cortëge, walk: The march was organized to protest against the government's nuclear arms policy. 3 walk, trek, slog, hike: We had a long march ahead of us to get to Hastings.
MARRY|0|v. 1 wed, join in matrimony or wedlock, become man and wife, Colloq get hitched or spliced, tie the knot: They married and lived happily ever after. 2 match (up), go or fit together, fit; unite, unify, bond, weld, fuse, put together, couple, join, link; league, affiliate, ally, amalgamate, combine: The marble head, found in London, married perfectly with the torso, found in Crete. The best qualities of each earlier model are married in this new product.
MARSH|0|n. swamp, bog, fen, slough, quagmire: The marsh teems with new life in the spring.
MATCH|0|n. 1 equal, equivalent, peer, equivalent, fellow, mate; parallel, replica, copy, double, twin, look-alike, facsimile, counterpart: When it comes to punning, Crosby has finally met his match. 2 contest, competition, game, meet, tourney, tournament, bout, duel, rivalry, trial: The match was between the top-seeded players. 3 marriage, betrothal, alliance, combination, compact, contract, partnership, union, affiliation: It was a match made in heaven. 4 prospect, candidate: With his inheritance, he's considered a good match. --v. 5 match up, join, marry, unite, link, combine, put together, pair up or off, juxtapose, conjoin: However did you manage to match names and faces? Glynis matched them up at the dinner table. 6 equal, be equivalent (to), resemble, compare (with), tie, measure up (to), compete (with), vie (with), rival: His skill on the flute will never match hers. 7 fit, go with, suit, accord, agree, harmonize, go (together), coordinate, blend, correspond: Who will notice that your socks match your tie? Your eyes don't match.
MAXIM|0|n. saying, proverb, axiom, aphorism, adage, byword, saw, apophthegm or apothegm, epigram, motto, slogan; mot, witticism; clich÷, truism: Her maxim is, 'What you don't know, can't hurt you'.
MAYBE|0|adv. perhaps, possibly, Literary perchance, Archaic or dialect mayhap, Archaic peradventure: We could go and see a film tonight, or maybe have a meal somewhere.
MEANS|0|n. See mean°, 4, above.
MERCY|0|n. compassion, pity, forbearance, quarter, tolerance, sympathy, favour, forgiveness, kindness, kindliness, leniency, tenderness, humanity, humaneness, liberality, kind-heartedness, tender-heartedness, soft-heartedness, graciousness, generosity, magnanimity, benignity, beneficence, charity, thoughtfulness, consideration, indulgence: May the Lord have mercy on your soul. We could expect no mercy from that slave-driver.
MERGE|0|v. combine, coalesce, unite, join, amalgamate, consolidate, pool, blend, mix, mingle, commingle, fuse: If we merge our companies, we shall save on overhead costs.
MERIT|0|n. 1 worth, worthiness, value, excellence, quality, virtue, good, goodness: Philip's plan has a good deal of merit. 2 Often, merits. assets, strong point, advantage, rights and wrongs: What exactly are the merits of his approach over mine? The case should be tried on its own merits. --v. 3 earn, deserve, warrant, rate, have a right or claim to, be entitled to, be qualified for, be worthy of: What gave you the idea that you merited any special consideration?
MERRY|0|adj. 1 cheerful, happy, gay, cheery, jolly, jovial, in high or good spirits, mirthful, joyful, joyous, hilarious, jubilant, rejoicing, festive, exhilarating, exuberant, vivacious, convivial, buoyant, gleeful, blithe, blithesome, carefree, light-hearted, delighted: Didn't we have a merry old time at the Christmas party! 2 make merry. revel, celebrate, carouse, frolic: The guests made merry till the wee hours of the morning.
MIDST|0|n. middle, centre, mid-point, halfway point: In the midst of life we are in death. They live in a fairy-tale chçteau in the midst of beautiful Breton countryside. This proved a welcome boost in the midst of a difficult election campaign.
MIGHT|0|n. 1 strength, power, energy, force, muscle, potency, Literary puissance: I hit my attacker with all my might. Might doesn't always make right. 2 influence, authority, weight, sway, dominion, ascendancy, superiority, mightiness, capability, capacity, power, effect, effectiveness, Colloq clout: It was not till the 20th century that the might of the United States was felt outside its borders.
MIMIC|0|v. 1 imitate, ape, copy, simulate, mirror, echo: The image in the mirror mimicked every move I made. 2 reproduce, duplicate, copy: This frieze mimics one on the Parthenon. 3 mock, ridicule, satirize, caricature, parody, make fun of, lampoon, impersonate, Colloq take off: It is rude to mimic your elders. --n. 4 impersonator, imitator, impressionist, caricaturist, parodist, Colloq copycat: Professor Eidolon, the greatest mimic in the world, is here to entertain you! --adj. 5 imitative, imitation, mock, simulated, mimetic, sham, make-believe, pretend(ed); fake, counterfeit, feigned: Naumachia is the name given to the mimic sea battle staged in ancient Rome.
MINOR|0|adj. 1 lesser, smaller, secondary, subordinate, subsidiary: The minor planets are bodies orbiting the sun in the asteroid belt. 2 insignificant, obscure, inconsequential, unimportant, trifling, trivial, negligible, inconsiderable, slight, petty, paltry, small, Colloq small-time, one-horse, Brit two a penny, US minor-league, bush-league, penny-ante, two-bit, picayune: It is a minor matter to me whether you stay or go. She is only a minor player in this game. --n. 3 child, youngster, youth, stripling, teenager, adolescent, schoolboy, schoolgirl, boy, girl, lad, laddie, lass, lassie, Law ward, infant: At your age, you are still a minor in the eyes of the law.
MIRTH|0|n. merriment, merrymaking, jollity, gaiety, fun, laughter, amusement, frolic, frolicking, joviality, joyousness, revelry, rejoicing, glee, high spirits, mirthfulness, hilarity, buoyancy, Formal jocundity: Life without mirth is a lamp without oil. Christmas is a time for mirth.
MISER|0|n. skinflint, hoarder, niggard, penny-pincher, pinchpenny, cheese-parer, Scrooge, Colloq cheapskate, US tightwad: For that old miser, charity begins and ends at home.
MISTY|0|adj. cloudy, foggy, hazy, murky; fuzzy, dim, blurred, blurry, unclear, indistinct, vague, dark, opaque, shadowy, obscure, unintelligible: It is very misty, so drive carefully. I have only the mistiest idea of what you mean.
MODEL|0|n. 1 representation, replica, mock-up, maquette, scale model, working model, miniature, dummy, image, likeness, facsimile, copy: This is a model of the house he is planning. 2 original, mould, archetype, prototype, pattern, paragon, ideal, exemplar, example, standard: When the wax model is finished, we cast it in bronze using the cire perdue process. Their government was established after the Roman model. 3 ideal, paragon, exemplar, epitome, beau id÷al, cream, crëme de la crëme, ne plus ultra, nonpareil, nonsuch or nonesuch: He is the very model of what a father should be. 4 subject, sitter, poser: Dali's wife served as his model for many paintings. 5 mannequin; dummy: She is tall and thin enough to be a fashion model. May I see the hat that is on that model in the window? 6 design, kind, type, style, version; variety, sort, form, fashion, configuration; brand, mark: I'm intending to trade my car in for a newer model. --v. 7 fashion, mould, shape, form, sculpt, carve (out), make, fabricate, produce: She modelled these figures out of fine clay. 8 pose in, display, show (off), wear, Colloq sport: She makes a fortune modelling swimwear. 9 model after or on. imitate, copy, pattern on or after, emulate, follow: Architects often used to model public buildings after the temples on the Acropolis. --adj. 10 copy, imitation, facsimile, representative, miniature: He enjoys building model aeroplanes. 11 ideal, exemplary, perfect, archetypal, unequalled, consummate, inimitable: Oliver has been a model student.
MOGUL|0|n. magnate, tycoon, baron, mandarin, Colloq big shot, big gun, big cheese, Pooh Bah, bigwig, big wheel, big (White) Chief, big Daddy, hotshot, VIP, big noise, nabob, Slang US Mr Big: In the old days, he was one of the moguls in Hollywood.
MOIST|0|adj. 1 damp, wettish, dampish, dewy, dank, humid, clammy, muggy, steamy, misty, foggy: During the monsoon everything becomes so moist that your clothes never seem to dry. 2 damp, wet, rainy, drizzly, soggy, moisture-laden: The moist climate keeps Ireland green. 3 tearful, teary, misty, lachrymose: Every eye in the theatre was moist at the end of that scene.
MONEY|0|n. 1 currency, legal tender, medium of exchange, specie, (hard) cash, ready money, banknotes, paper money, Brit notes, US bills, coin(s), change, small change, Derogatory (filthy) lucre, pelf, Colloq shekels, Brit lolly, readies, US folding money, cold (hard) cash, US and Canadian and Australian shin-plasters; Slang loot, dough, bread, spondulicks or spondulix, boodle, readies or the ready, moolah, Brit rhino, US (long) green, greenbacks, mazuma, wampum, simoleons, bucks, scratch, gelt, kale, cabbage, lettuce, spinach: He makes daily rounds to collect the money from the launderettes he owns. 2 resources, wealth, fortune, funds, capital, wherewithal, affluence, means, (liquid) assets, riches; Slang bundle: All the family money is invested in long-term bonds. 3 gain, profit, net, Colloq take, percentage, Slang rake-off: How much money does the shop take in at the end of the day? 4 in the money. rich, wealthy, affluent, moneyed or monied, well off, well-to-do, prosperous, Colloq flush, in clover, in or on Easy Street, Slang loaded, well-heeled, rolling in it or in money or in dough, filthy rich, stinking rich, fat: They have been in the money since their uncle died.
MOODY|0|adj. 1 sullen, melancholy, blue, sad, unhappy, dejected, depressed, crestfallen, downcast, despondent, chap-fallen, in the doldrums, downhearted, gloomy, glum, moping, mopy, mopish, sulky, sulking, morose, brooding, broody, heavy-hearted, dour, cheerless, dismal, desolate, disconsolate, lugubrious, disheartened, saturnine, Colloq down in the mouth, (down) in the dumps, out of sorts, US off (one's) feed: He's been moody the past few days, and I don't know how to cheer him up. 2 testy, crotchety, short-tempered, abrupt, short, curt, impatient, crabby, crusty, huffy, huffish, crabbed, cantankerous, curmudgeonly, ill-humoured, ill-tempered, cranky, petulant, waspish, temperamental, snappish, snappy, irritable, peevish, cranky, touchy, piqued; in a (fit of) pique, in high dudgeon: If I were you, I shouldn't ask her for a favour today as she's very moody. 3 fickle, volatile, capricious, mercurial, unstable, fitful, flighty, unsteady, changeable, erratic, uneven, inconstant, undependable, unreliable, unpredictable: Being artists, they are moody, and there's no telling if they will want to be interviewed today.
MORAL|0|adj. 1 ethical; right, good, pure, honest, proper, upright, honourable, decent, moralistic, respectable, high-minded, virtuous, upstanding, righteous, principled, scrupulous, incorruptible, noble, just: She is one of the most moral people I have ever met. 2 ethical, moralizing, moralistic: Questions of right and wrong are a subject for moral philosophy. It is a moral, not a legal, issue. --n. 3 lesson, homily, teaching, point, message; aphorism, maxim, precept, apophthegm or apothegm, adage, saw, proverb, epigram, motto, slogan: The moral of the story is, 'Do unto others before they do unto you'. 4 morals. behaviour, conduct, mores, belief, habit(s), custom(s), practice(s), principle(s), scruples, ethics, ideals, standards; probity, morality, rectitude, integrity: For this appointment, we require a person of the highest morals.
MOTIF|0|n. theme, idea, topic, subject, concept, leitmotif; pattern, figure, refrain, device, ornament, decoration, element, convention: The painter repeats the motif throughout his pictures in much the same way that a composer repeats a bar of music.
MOTTO|0|n. maxim, proverb, saying, adage, saw, aphorism, apophthegm or apothegm, gnome, slogan, byword, catchword, battle-cry, guide, moral, principle, rule, precept: The motto of the Order of the Garter is Honi soit qui mal y pense, 'Shame on whoever thinks ill of it'.
MOULD|0|n. 1 form, cast, matrix, die; template or templet, pattern, form: He broke the mould to prevent the casting of a duplicate statuette. 2 form, shape, pattern, format, structure, build, construction, design, arrangement, organization, configuration, kind, brand, make, line, type, stamp, cut: Was man made in the same mould as his God, or vice versa? 3 character, nature, stamp, type, kind, kidney, ilk, sort: Grandpa said that he wouldn't want someone of her mould in the family. --v. 4 shape, form, make, work, fashion, configure, sculpture or sculpt, model, knead, construct: carve, cut: The artist moulded the original design in clay. 5 forge, cast, stamp, die-cast: These beads are moulded from solid gold. 6 influence, shape, form, affect, make, control, direct, guide, lead: The speech-writer's job is to mould the language to fit his client's ideas. The candidate is trying to mould public opinion in his favour. n. soil, earth, loam, topsoil, dirt, humus: Add some rich mould to the house-plants periodically and they will flourish.
MOUND|0|n. 1 hillock, rise, hummock, hill, hump, bank, elevation, knoll, knob, swell, dune, slope, tor, Chiefly W US and Canadian butte,: We stood on a high mound from which we could see for miles. 2 heap, pile, stack, Archaeology tumulus, tell, barrow, (kitchen) midden: Excavation of the mound yielded scores of Iron Age artefacts.
MOUNT|0|n. 1 See mountain, 1, below. --v. 2 climb (up), go up, ascend, scale, clamber up, make one's way up: We mounted the ladder to the roof. The speaker mounted the dais. 3 rise (up), arise, soar, fly (up), rocket (upwards): With the salmon in its grasp, the eagle mounted to the sky. 4 climb or get or clamber up on, bestride, straddle, bestraddle: The gunfighter mounted his horse and rode off. 5 (put on) display, (put on) exhibit, put on exhibition, present, install or instal, stage, prepare, ready, put on, put in place, set up; arrange, coordinate, compose, organize, set in motion, launch: The gallery will mount a show of John's sculpture next spring. They have mounted a major advertising campaign for their face cream. 6 frame, mat or matt, set off: This print should be mounted using an olive green paper. 7 increase, wax, rise, escalate, intensify, swell, expand, grow, mount up, multiply, pile up, build up, accumulate: Complaints have been mounting against the vulgar language heard on prime-time TV. --n. 8 backing, setting, support, mounting, background, set, arrangement, backdrop, scene: This style of mount sets off the ruby to its best advantage. 9 horse, steed, charger, palfrey: Her mount was a grey mare.
MOURN|0|v. grieve (over), lament, sorrow (over), bemoan, bewail, keen, weep for or over, regret, rue, deplore: We all mourned the loss of a great leader. After his death, the nation mourned for a month.
MOUSY|0|adj. 1 mousey, mouse-coloured, dun, grey, greyish-brown, brownish-grey, brownish, brown, dull, lustreless, lacklustre, drab, flat, plain, colourless: Her lank, mousy hair hung down over her shoulders. 2 timid, cowering, timorous, shy, self-effacing, diffident: Adrian is far too mousy to ask for an increase in salary.
MOUTH|0|n. 1 lips; maw, jaws, oral cavity, Technical stoma, Slang trap, kisser, muzzle, gob, chops, yap, US bazoo: I want to hear that you don't love me from your own mouth. 2 opening, aperture, doorway, door, gateway, gate, access, entrance, inlet, entry, entry-way, way in, entr÷e; passage, passageway, way, orifice; exit, way out, vent, outlet, outfall, Technical debouchment or debouchure, debouch or d÷bouch÷, embouchure: We stood at the mouth of the cave. An enormous delta formed at the mouth of the river. 3 bragging, boasting, braggadocio, empty or idle talk, bombast, rodomontade, fustian, Slang claptrap, hot air, gas: The fellow is all mouth and no action. 4 disrespect, impudence, insolence, sauciness, rudeness, impertinence, pertness, boldness, audacity, presumptuousness, brashness, flippancy, Colloq lip, cheek, backchat, sauce, freshness, US sass, back talk: He'd better not give me any of his mouth or I'll have his guts for garters. 5 grimace, pout, moue, face: She made a mouth when I said she couldn't go. 6 down in or at the mouth. dejected, despondent, sad, sorrowful, unhappy, melancholy, blue, crestfallen, dispirited, disheartened, downcast, Colloq (down) in the dumps, broken up: He was very down in the mouth after seeing the results of the laboratory tests. --v. 7 utter, say, speak, pronounce, announce, enunciate, articulate, voice, sound, express, vocalize; declaim, orate: He mouthed each word with excruciating care. Who wants to hear some pompous fool mouthing platitudes?
MOVIE|0|n. 1 motion picture, film, moving picture, silent (picture), talking picture, Colloq talkie, flick: Her grandfather was one of the first actors in silent movies. 2 Usually, movies. picture show, cinema, flicks, Colloq big or large screen, silver screen: Why don't we go to the movies instead of watching television tonight?
MUSTY|0|adj. 1 mouldy, damp, mildewed, mildewy, sour, rancid, spoilt, decayed, rotten, putrid, fetid or foetid, fusty, stale: Open the windows to get rid of that musty odour. 2 stale, old-fashioned, antiquated, antediluvian, ancient, out of date, bygone, pass÷, old hat, obsolete, archaic, tired, hoary, worn out, trite, clich÷d, stereotypical: I've heard all those musty jokes of his a thousand times before.
NAKED|0|adj. 1 stark naked, unclothed, undraped, bare, exposed, stripped, undressed, unclad, uncovered, bared, nude, in the nude, Colloq in the altogether, in one's birthday suit, in the buff, in the raw, au naturel, in a state of nature, Brit starkers, in the nuddy: The two of them stood there, completely naked. 2 unaided, unassisted: Stars of the seventh magnitude or brighter are visible to the naked eye. 3 plain, unadorned, unembellished, stark, overt, patent, obvious, conspicuous, manifest, sheer, undisguised, unvarnished, unmitigated, evident, palpable, unconcealed, in plain sight or view, blatant, barefaced, undeniable, glaring, flagrant, unmistakable or unmistakeable, unalloyed, unmixed, blunt, unadulterated, pure: He told her the naked truth about how he felt. 4 unsheathed, unprotected, bare, exposed: How dare he show a naked sword in the presence of the Emperor?!
NASTY|0|adj. 1 foul, filthy, dirty, unclean, offensive, disgusting, nauseating, revolting, horrible, loathsome, repugnant, repellent, vile, odious, obnoxious, objectionable, nauseous, sickening, vomit-provoking, fetid or foetid, noisome, mephitic, rank, malodorous, rancid, noxious: The nasty stench of rotting vegetation assailed our nostrils. 2 unpleasant, disagreeable, unsavoury, painful, objectionable, annoying, untoward, awkward, difficult, bad, serious: Lord Petherbridge had some very nasty experiences in the war. 3 obscene, dirty, pornographic, blue, smutty, lewd, vulgar, sordid, indecent, licentious, gross, coarse, crude, rude, ribald, bawdy, risqu÷, off colour, suggestive, Colloq X-rated, raunchy: The shops are selling some rather nasty videos that I don't want the children to watch. 4 unpleasant, disagreeable, ugly, bad-tempered, vicious, currish, surly, abusive, spiteful, irascible, ill-natured, ill-tempered, cruel, inconsiderate, rude, churlish, obnoxious, crotchety, curmudgeonly, cantankerous, crabbed, cranky, US and Canadian mean: Why is your father so nasty to everyone who wants to go out with you? 5 bad, severe, acute, painful, serious; dangerous, critical: I got a nasty shock when I opened the cupboard door. That's a nasty wound you have there.
NAVEL|0|n. Technical umbilicus, omphalos, Colloq belly button: The dancer wore a ruby in her navel.
NEEDY|0|adj. poor, indigent, poverty-stricken, destitute, impoverished, penniless, impecunious, necessitous, underprivileged, deprived, disadvantaged, below the poverty level, in dire straits, in or on the way to the poorhouse, in reduced circumstances, down-and-out, insolvent, Colloq on one's uppers, dead or flat or stony-broke, hard up, strapped, pinched, on the breadline, up against it, Brit on the dole, US dead broke, on welfare, on relief: It is not enough to look after needy families only at Christmas time.
NERVE|0|n. 1 courage, coolness, boldness, bravery, intrepidity, determination, valour, daring, fearlessness, dauntlessness, pluck, mettle, spirit, fortitude, will, tenacity, steadfastness, staunchness, firmness, doughtiness, resoluteness, Colloq guts, grit, gumption, spunk, US sand, Brit bottle, US moxie , Taboo slang balls: It took a lot of nerve to go back into that burning building. 2 effrontery, brazenness, gall, impertinence, brass, impudence, insolence, audacity, brashness, presumption, presumptuousness, temerity, Colloq cheek, sauce, chutzpah, Slang crust: You have a lot of nerve, talking to your mother that way! 3 get on someone's nerves. annoy, irritate, upset: That loud rock music gets on my nerves. 4 nerves. tension, nervousness, hysteria, anxiety, fretfulness, stress, worry, apprehension, fright, Colloq the jitters, Slang the willies, the heebie-jeebies, US the whim-whams: I had a bad case of nerves before learning the doctor's diagnosis.
NEVER|0|adv. 1 at no time, not ever, not at any time, on no occasion, under no circumstances or condition(s), on no account, not at all, Colloq not in a million years, not till hell freezes over: You are never to use such language again! 2 in no way, not in any way, not in the least, not in any degree, not under any condition, not: Never fear, for I am near.
NICHE|0|n. 1 recess, hollow, alcove, nook: A small statue of Buddha stood in a niche in the wall. 2 place, position, Colloq slot, pigeon-hole: Humphrey has finally found a niche for himself working as a tax inspector.
NIFTY|0|adj. 1 smart, stylish, modish, chic, spruce: I borrowed a nifty outfit from Grandma for the flapper's costume ball. 2 healthy, in good form, spry, energetic, agile, quick: I'm not as nifty as I was in 1950. 3 excellent, neat, great, splendid, fine, clever, skilful, apt, suitable: Having a picnic was a nifty idea. That was as nifty a bit of bargaining as I 've ever seen. 4 satisfactory, satisfying, good, profitable, substantial, considerable: He made a nifty profit on the sale of his house in Chelsea.
NIGHT|0|n. 1 (Stygian or Cimmerian) dark or darkness or blackness or gloom; night-time, shades of night, Formal tenebrosity or tenebrousness or tenebriousness: The strange creature slunk off into the night. 2 nightfall, gloaming, twilight, dusk, eventide, evening, evensong, edge of night, sunset, sundown, end of day, vespers: When night comes, one can hear the frogs calling from the pond. 3 night and day. all the time, continually, incessantly, unceasingly, continuously, unendingly, endlessly, round-the-clock, ceaselessly, non-stop: Those animals keep up their caterwauling night and day.
NOBLE|0|n. 1 nobleman, noblewoman, aristocrat, patrician, lord, lady, peer; gentleman, gentlewoman, Colloq blue blood: The nobles united and forced King John to sign the Magna Carta. --adj. 2 high-born, high-class, upper-class, aristocratic, titled, high-ranking, lordly, patrician, Colloq blue-blood(ed): She came from a noble Austrian family. 3 dignified, eminent, distinguished, august, grand, lofty, elevated, illustrious, prestigious, pre-eminent, noted, honoured, esteemed, celebrated, renowned, acclaimed, respected, venerated: The noble Knights of the Round Table have become legend throughout the world. 4 upright, righteous, honourable, honest, virtuous, incorruptible, chivalrous, staunch, steadfast, true, loyal, faithful, trustworthy, true, principled, moral, good, decent, self-sacrificing, magnanimous, generous: The qualities that make a noble friend make a formidable enemy. 5 splendid, magnificent, imposing, impressive, stately, exquisite, sublime, grand, striking, stunning, superb, admirable, elegant, rich, sumptuous, luxurious: The Taj Mahal is probably one of the noblest works of man.
NOISE|0|n. 1 sound, clamour, crash, clap, clash, clangour, din, thunder, thundering, rumble, rumbling, outcry, hubbub, uproar, hullabaloo, racket, charivari or US and Canadian also shivaree, rattle, caterwauling, rumpus, blare, blast, blasting, bawling, babel; commotion, bedlam, fracas, tumult, pandemonium, turmoil; discordance, dissonance, cacophony; Archaic alarms or alarums and excursions, Colloq ruckus, ruction, ballyhoo: I couldn't sleep because of the unbearable noise from the party next door. You may call acid rock music, but she calls it noise. 2 sound, disturbance: Did you just hear that strange noise? It's only the noise of the crickets. --v. 3 Often, noise about or around. circulate, spread, rumour, bruit (about): It is being noised about that John and Marsha are getting a divorce.
NOISY|0|adj. loud, deafening, ear-splitting, jarring, grating, harsh, piercing, shrill, discordant, unmusical, dissonant, cacophonous or cacophonic, resounding, clarion, clamorous, clangorous, thunderous, uproarious, blaring, blasting, obstreperous, vociferous, boisterous, tumultuous, riotous: I could hear nothing over the noisy aeroplane engines. When she arose to speak, the noisy crowd fell silent.
NOTCH|0|n. 1 nick, cut, dent, indentation, groove, cleft, score, mark, gouge, gash: For every man he killed, the gunfighter cut a notch in the barrel of his gun. 2 step, grade, level, rung, peg, degree, stage, gradation: Gillian's promotion moves her up another notch towards the chairmanship. --v. 3 nick, cut, dent, indent, groove, score, mark, gash, gouge: You notch the end of the arrow to admit the bowstring. 4 notch up. gain, win, accomplish, achieve, score, register, mark (up): The All-India cricket team has notched up another win.
NOTED|0|adj. respected, eminent, distinguished, illustrious, esteemed, acclaimed; well-known, famous, famed, prominent, celebrated, notable, popular; notorious: We are pleased to welcome the noted violinist, David Popov. Was it his aunt or his mother who ran the noted house of ill repute near Brighton?
NOVEL|0|adj. 1 new, unusual, unfamiliar, unconventional, fresh, different, original, creative; untested, untried: I have a novel idea for the design of an ultralight aircraft. --n. 2 story, tale, narrative, romance; novella, novelette, best-seller, Colloq blockbuster: The members of our company board behave like characters out of a novel.
NUDGE|0|v. 1 jog, poke, elbow, jab, dig, bump, prompt, shove; prod, push, US encourage: I had to nudge him to stay awake for the film's thrilling climax. --n. 2 jog, poke, elbow, jab, dig, bump, shove; prod, push, encouragement: Nigel just needs a nudge in the right direction.
NURSE|0|n. 1 angel of mercy, Florence Nightingale, Brit sister: I awoke to see two nurses bending over me. --v. 2 care for, look after, tend, attend, minister to, treat; nurture, foster, coddle, baby, pamper, cherish, preserve, keep alive, cultivate, develop: During his illness, she nursed him night and day. We nursed the company along through the first year. 3 wet-nurse, suckle, breast-feed, nourish: Nursing mothers must be careful about what they eat. 4 preserve, harbour, keep alive, nurture, foster: She has nursed a grudge against him for ten years.
OASIS|0|n. 1 fertile patch, watering-hole: In the desert, you cannot always be sure whether you are looking at an oasis or a mirage. 2 haven, refuge, (safe) harbour, sanctuary, retreat, asylum, resort, sanctum: We escaped to the cottage, a tiny oasis away from the city's frenetic activity.
OBESE|0|adj. fat, overweight, stout, fleshy, gross, corpulent, heavy, plump, portly, tubby, pudgy, chubby, paunchy, rotund, pot-bellied, Rare abdominous: I sat down next to an obese person who occupied nearly two chairs.
OCCUR|0|v. 1 happen, take place, arise, come about, befall, come to pass, chance, appear, surface, materialize, develop, become manifest, manifest itself, Colloq transpire, crop up, come off, turn up: We reported to the police all that had occurred. What occurred to make you late this time? 2 occur to. dawn on, strike, hit, come to, suggest itself to, cross (someone's) mind, enter (someone's) head, be brought to (someone's) attention: Has it occurred to you that she might not like opera?
OCEAN|0|n. 1 (deep blue) sea, (bounding) main, high seas, the deep, Davy Jones's locker, the depths, Colloq the briny, the drink: The sails filled, and our tiny craft was swept out into the open ocean. 2 Often, oceans. flood, abundance, multitude, profusion, plethora, Colloq scads, loads, tons, lots, oodles, gobs, zillions: The direct mail campaign yielded oceans of responses.
ODOUR|0|n. 1 smell, scent, aroma, bouquet, fragrance, perfume, redolence; stench, stink, fetor or foetor: The air was filled with the odour of orange blossoms. The odour of rotting vegetation assailed our noses. 2 air, breath, hint, suggestion, atmosphere, spirit, quality, flavour, savour, aura, tone: She would never allow the odour of scandal to touch her family.
OFFER|0|v. 1 proffer, propose, tender, bid: They offered twice what I had paid for it. She offered to buy my old car. 2 make available, present, tender, put on the market, sell, put up for sale, put up, furnish: The supermarket is offering lettuce at half price. 3 proffer, provide, submit, put forward or forth, advance, tender, extend, make; suggest: Can you offer a suggestion for improving office efficiency? He offered to forget the whole thing if I paid him ø1000. 4 volunteer, present oneself, step or come forward: I offered to help with her luggage. --n. 5 proposal, bid, tender, offering: She said she would double any offer we have already had for the painting. 6 proposal, presentation, proffer, proposition: The company said they could entertain no offers past the deadline. My offer to lend the money was contingent on being repaid.
OFTEN|0|adv. frequently, regularly, much, many times, usually, habitually, commonly; ordinarily, again and again, over and over again, time after time, repeatedly, time and (time) again, in many cases or instances, on numerous occasions, day in (and) day out, continually, Literary oftentimes, oft: How often do you visit your mother? We often went to the seaside for our summer holiday. She was often warned not to go too near the edge.
ONSET|0|n. 1 attack, assault, onrush, onslaught, charge, strike, hit, raid, storming, sally, sortie: These troops had to bear the brunt of the onset. 2 beginning, start, outset, initiation, inauguration, commencement, inception, dawn, birth, origin, genesis, appearance, debut: We must leave before the onset of the monsoon season. The sudden onset of a new policy will throw the ministers into a panic.
ORBIT|0|n. 1 circuit, course, path, track, revolution, circle, round, cycle: The earth's orbit round the sun is elliptical. --v. 2 revolve, go round, circle, encircle, turn: The earth orbits the sun in a year. Electrons orbit the nucleus of an atom.
ORDER|0|n. 1 organization, arrangement, grouping, disposition, form, structure, categorization, systematization or systemization, classification, codification, disposal, layout, array, sequence, Colloq set-up: The order of the library is of crucial importance if we are to find anything. 2 organization, uniformity, regularity, system, pattern, symmetry, harmony, tidiness, orderliness, neatness: Some believe that there is an order of things in the universe, others that the universe tends to chaos. 3 category, class, caste, level, kind, sort, rank, group, scale, importance, hierarchy, position, status, degree, Colloq pecking order: Gregory's musical talents are of a very high order. 4 command, direction, directive, instruction, commandment, dictate, mandate, edict, behest, request, demand, ukase, decree, fiat, proclamation, pronouncement, pronunciamento; rule, regulation, law, ordinance, statute, requirement: The police have issued an order to surrender all hand guns. 5 procedure, proceeding(s), discipline, conduct: The order of the meeting was breached by some rowdies. 6 condition, state (of affairs): Please leave everything in the order in which you found it. 7 purchase order, request, requisition, commitment, commission, instruction: We received a large order for office furniture. 8 calm, peace, peacefulness, tranquillity, quiet, serenity, law and order, discipline, lawfulness: After a brief commotion, order was restored. 9 brotherhood, fraternity, sisterhood, sorority, fellowship, sodality, association, organization, society, guild, sect, company, community, lodge, body, knighthood: One of her ancestors was a Knight of the Teutonic Order. 10 in order. a neat, clean, tidy, shipshape, orderly, (well-)organized, ready, prepared, arranged: Is everything in order for the wedding tomorrow? b fitting, suitable, appropriate, correct, right, apt, called-for; required, demanded, needed: I think that an apology is in order for the way you behaved. 11 in order that. so (that), with th...
ORGAN|0|n. 1 device, instrument, implement, tool; member, part, element, unit, component, structure, Technical process: The eye, come to think of it, is a truly miraculous organ. 2 medium, vehicle, voice, mouthpiece, forum, publication, paper, magazine, newsletter, house organ, newspaper, annual, semi-annual, quarterly, monthly, fortnightly, weekly, hebdomadal, daily, journal, periodical: The official organ of the Society is published in Abergavenny.
OUTDO|0|v. exceed, surpass, excel, transcend, beat, outstrip, outshine, top, cap, trump, overcome, defeat, outweigh: Their prices are lower because they outdo us in cheapness of labour.
OVERT|0|adj. apparent, evident, plain, clear, obvious, manifest, clear-cut, unconcealed, patent, open, visible, observable, public: Moving the troops to the border may be considered an act of overt hostility.
OWNER|0|n. possessor, holder; proprietor, proprietress: The papers have been returned to their rightful owner. Who is the owner of the property?
PAGAN|0|n. 1 heathen, unbeliever, idolater, polytheist, infidel, Gentile: He joined the religion of the pagans and worshipped the golden calf. --adj. 2 heathen, infidel, idolatrous, polytheistic, heathenish, Gentile: Many churchmen condemned Renaissance scholars for their interest in pagan and pre-Christian writers.
PAINT|0|n. 1 colour, tint, dye, colouring, pigment, stain: I bought the paint and brushes, and started work on the kitchen walls. 2 coating, coat, surface; enamel: The rust has come through the paint here and there. 3 make-up, cosmetics, maquillage, greasepaint, Colloq warpaint, face: Sheila is in her room putting on some paint before we go out. --v. 4 depict, portray, picture, show, represent, delineate, render, draw, limn, characterize, describe: Whistler painted a portrait of my grandmother. Correspondents painted a very grim picture of the plight of the hostages. 5 coat, brush, apply, cover, daub: The doctor painted the area with some medication that soothed the pain. 6 colour, tint, dye, stain, decorate: We are planning to paint the nursery pale blue. 7 paint the town red. make merry, carouse, revel, go on a spree, go out on the town, Colloq whoop it up, live it up, (go on a) pub-crawl, step out, Slang make whoopee, go on a bender or drunk or binge, booze it up: Saturday nights a few of the boys would go out and paint the town red till the wee hours.
PANIC|0|n. 1 terror, alarm, fear, fright, dread, horror, dismay, consternation, hysteria; anxiety, apprehension, apprehensiveness, nervousness: As the speeding car veered towards us, a feeling of panic gripped me. --v. 2 be terrified or alarmed or fearful or frightened or terror-stricken or terror-struck, dread, fear, lose one's nerve; frighten, scare; Colloq go to pieces, fall apart, Brit lose one's bottle: I panicked, turned the wheel the wrong way, and crashed the car into a tree. Gregory panics at the slightest sign of danger. 3 frighten, scare, alarm, terrify, unnerve: Something panicked the horses and one kicked out his stall door.
PANTS|0|n.pl. 1 In Britain (men's) drawers, small-clothes, smalls, drawers, underpants, boxer shorts, trunks, undershorts, Y-fronts, briefs, Colloq smalls; (women's) knickers, camiknickers, panties, drawers, bloomers, pantalettes, tights, pantihose, undies: The baby was dressed in a frilly dress and matching pants. 2 In US: trousers, slacks, breeches, (Oxford) bags, knickerbockers, flannels, shorts, Bermuda shorts or Bermudas, pedal pushers, bell-bottoms, peg-tops, hip-huggers, (blue) jeans, dungarees, denims, Trade Mark Levis, Scots trews; Scots and No. Eng. breeks, US knickers, Colloq cut-offs: Americans who go into British shops asking for a pair of pants are embarrassed to be offered only underwear.
PAPER|0|n. 1 newspaper, tabloid, daily, weekly, journal, gazette, publication, periodical, newsletter, organ, Colloq rag, sheet: She is feature editor of a paper in Manchester. 2 Often, papers. a document(s), instrument, legal papers, form, certificate, deed, ownership papers; credential(s), identification: Bring the papers to my office for signing. His papers are not in order. Many people lost their papers during the war. b docket, files, dossier, record(s), archive(s): Your papers seem to have disappeared from our office. 3 stationery, letterhead, writing-paper, letter-paper, notepaper; foolscap; scrap or US also scratch paper; wrapping paper; gift-wrapping, gift-wrap; wallpaper: She wrote to me on the most beautiful engraved paper. We buy our Christmas paper from a museum shop. 4 article, composition, essay, assignment, report, thesis, study, tract, analysis, critique, exegesis, treatise, dissertation, disquisition, manuscript, MS or ms, autograph, holograph, typescript, script, speech: Adelaide will present her paper at the meeting of the Royal Academy this year. --v. 5 (hang) wallpaper, line; post, distribute: The entire area was papered with posters announcing the meeting.
PARCH|0|v. dry (out or up), desiccate, dehydrate, exsiccate; scorch, sear, burn, bake; shrivel (up), wither: The earth was parched by the unrelenting sun.
PARTY|0|n. 1 (social) gathering, (cocktail or dinner) party, celebration, féte or fete, function, reception, soir÷e, levee, festivity, festivities, festival, frolic, spree, romp, carousal or carouse, saturnalia, bacchanalia, debauch, orgy, Colloq get-together, bash, bust, shindig or shindy, ball, at-home, do, Brit beanfeast, beano, knees-up, US blow-out, Slang Brit rave or rave-up, Chiefly US and Canadian wingding, bust-up, US hop: Campbell said he had a marvellous time at your birthday party. 2 group, company, band, body, corps, gang, crew, team, squad, troop, platoon, detachment, detail, cadre, unit, Colloq bunch, outfit: A small party of men is trapped on the other side of the river. 3 side, interest, faction, league, club, coalition, bloc, division, sect, denomination, clique, coterie, set, cabal, junta or junto, partisans, adherents, confederacy, confederation, federation, Chiefly US and Canadian caucus: The proliferation of political parties confuses the electorate. 4 participant, participator, confederate, associate, ally, accomplice, accessory, approver, ratifier, upholder, contributor, supporter, advocate, backer, aid, helper, seconder, promoter, partisan, defender, exponent, proponent, champion: I refuse to be a party to any illegal act. 5 individual, person, litigant, plaintiff, defendant, side, interest, signer, signatory, co-signatory, participant, US co-signer: The party of the first part accuses the party of the second part of infidelity. How many parties are there to this contract?
PASTY|0|adj. wan, pallid, pasty-faced, sallow, pale, pale-faced, whey-faced, sickly, anaemic: He had the pasty complexion of a child raised in an industrial city.
PATCH|0|n. 1 piece, scrap, reinforcement; shred, snip, snippet, tatter; pad: Mother sewed colourful patches over the holes in my jeans. 2 area, section, segment, plat, plot, lot, tract, ground, parcel, field: All he ever wanted was a little house on a little patch of land. 3 responsibility, area, bailiwick, territory: The handling of customer complaints is in your patch, Gordon. 4 period, interval, spell, stage, episode, time; experience: She went through a bad patch shortly after Starkey died. --v. 5 patch up or over, mend, repair, vamp, revamp, darn, sew (up), reinforce, cover: I had my trousers patched where the dog bit me. Her father always wore the same patched jacket to the club. 6 Often, patch up. fix (up), doctor, jury-rig, improvise, knock together or up: Can you patch it up so I can drive it home? 7 patch up. settle, set right or straight, straighten out, reconcile, resolve, heal; come or bring to terms, bury the hatchet, kiss and make up, call a truce: Will the two girls ever patch up their differences?
PAUSE|0|v. 1 hesitate, interrupt, delay, hold up, discontinue, break, wait, mark time, suspend, intermit, falter, rest: He paused for a moment to allow late-comers to take their seats. --n. 2 hesitation, interruption, delay, lull, lapse, moratorium, hold-up, wait, break, breather, breathing-space, discontinuity, lacuna, hiatus, abeyance, discontinuation, discontinuance, Prosody caesura, Music fermata, Colloq let-up: There was a brief pause, then the altercation in the neighbouring flat resumed.
PEACE|0|n. 1 serenity, tranquillity, calm, calmness, placidity or placidness, peace of mind, quiet, peacefulness, peaceableness, stillness: For a summer holiday, we enjoy the peace of the Lakes. 2 harmony, accord, harmoniousness, concord, amity, peacefulness, peacetime; cease-fire, armistice, truce: Since the Second World War, Europe has enjoyed more than 45 years of relative peace.
PEARL|0|n. gem, treasure, prize, cream, flower, wonder, nonpareil: Wasn't Cuba once called the Pearl of the Antilles?
PENAL|0|adj. correctional, punitive, disciplinary: Crime and its punishment are covered in the penal code. He was sent to a penal colony for life.
PERCH|0|n. 1 roost, rest, seat; spot, location, position, place, site, vantage point, perspective: From his perch at the top of the cliff, Martin had a clear view of the cave entrance. --v. 2 roost, rest, sit, nest; place, put, set, situate, locate, position, site: The owl was perched in the tree, waiting for the vole to appear from its burrow.
PERIL|0|n. danger, threat, risk, jeopardy, exposure, vulnerability, susceptibility, uncertainty, insecurity: You enter there at your peril. It was a time of peril for us all. The child's life was in peril.
PETTY|0|adj. 1 insignificant, trivial, paltry, minor, inferior, niggling, trifling, negligible, puny, inessential, non-essential, inconsequential, unimportant, slight, nugatory, of no account, US dinky, Colloq piddling, measly, no great shakes, no big deal, small-time, Brit twopenny-halfpenny or tuppenny-halfpenny, US and Canadian picayune: He has been convicted only of petty crimes. 2 miserly, mean, mingy, stingy, cheese-paring, grudging, small-minded, cheap, niggardly, parsimonious, tight, tight-fisted, close, close-fisted: It was very petty of you to refuse the beggar a few pence.
PHASE|0|n. 1 stage, period, development, step: The boy is just going through a phase. 2 time, moment, juncture, occasion: At this phase of the discussion, I should like to introduce a new subject. 3 state, form, shape, configuration, aspect, appearance, look, condition, status: Here is a diagram of the phases of the moon at various points in its orbit. 4 facet, side, angle, viewpoint, point of view, Colloq slant: Only one phase of the argument has so far been presented. --v. 5 phase in. (gradually) introduce, usher in, work in, inject, insert, insinuate, include, incorporate: The new work schedules will be phased in over the next month. 6 phase out. ease out or off, taper off, wind up, put a stop to, (gradually) eliminate, remove, withdraw, discontinue, end: The use of non-biodegradable and non-recyclable packaging is being phased out.
PIECE|0|n. 1 bit, morsel, scrap, chunk, hunk, sliver, lump, portion, particle, fragment, shred, shard or sherd, remnant, quantity: All the beggar wanted was a piece of bread. A piece of shrapnel is still embedded in my arm. 2 wedge, slice, serving, helping, portion: You may not have a piece of pie till you've eaten your vegetables. 3 share, portion, fraction, part, division, segment, section, interest, holding, percentage, proportion: It turned out that a piece of the company had been sold without shareholders' approval. 4 (short) story, article, essay, report, theme, draft; poem; music, opus, (musical) number, composition, arrangement, tune, melody, song, air, jingle, ditty; production, play, drama, sketch, show: I read that piece about cholesterol in yesterday's paper. He wrote a piece for the flute. Which piece by Strindberg will you put on next? 5 man, token, chessman, chess-piece, chequer, Brit draughtsman: Once you have touched a piece you must move it. 6 go to pieces. fall apart, disintegrate, crumble, shatter; be shattered, be upset, be disturbed, have a nervous breakdown, go out of or lose control, break down, Colloq crack up: Another earthquake and this wall will go to pieces. At the news of his son's death, Joe simply went to pieces. 7 in pieces. smashed, destroyed, ruined, shattered, broken, in smithereens, smashed: The vase lay in pieces at my feet. Though I had won the case, my life was in pieces. 8 of a piece (with). similar, similarly constituted, alike, of the same sort or kind or type, uniform, the same, part and parcel (of the same thing), identical; in harmony, in agreement, harmonious, in keeping: This book is of a piece with the others in the same series. All his paintings are of a piece. 9 piece of cake. Colloq snap, cinch, US and Canadian lead-pipe cinch, breeze: The French exam was a piece of cake. 10 piece of (one's) mind. Colloq scolding, rebuke, lecture, reprimand, tongue-lashing, chiding, rap over or on the knuckles, Colloq hell, what for, dress...
PILES|0|n.pl. haemorrhoids.
PILOT|0|n. 1 aviator, aviatrix, flier, airman, airwoman, aeronaut, captain: The pilot announced that we would land in five minutes. 2 steersman, helmsman, navigator, US wheelman or wheelsman; guide, leader, cicerone, conductor: The pilot knows his way through the shoals. A student acted as our pilot in our tour of Oxford. --v. 3 guide, steer, run, direct, shepherd, control, lead, navigate, drive; fly: Only someone with local knowledge can pilot the ship into that harbour. The chairman piloted the company through turbulent times.
PINCH|0|v. 1 squeeze, nip, tweak, press, compress, grip, grasp: I pinched my finger in the drawer. 2 squeeze, cramp, confine, crush, hurt: These shoes really pinch badly. 3 steal, thieve, rob, take, shoplift, filch, pilfer, purloin, Colloq lift, Brit nick, US boost, Slang swipe, knock off: I think it was Andrew who pinched my book. 4 arrest, apprehend, take into custody, Colloq nab, run in, collar, bust, run in, Brit nick: She was pinched for driving while under the influence. 5 pinch pennies. scrimp, save, skimp, economize: We're pinching pennies now so that we can afford a nice holiday later. --n. 6 squeeze, nip, tweak, twinge: Montrose gave the girl's cheek an affectionate pinch. 7 touch, (tiny or wee) bit, soupúon, jot, mite, taste, Colloq US tad, smidgen or smidgin: Add a pinch of salt to the boiling water. 8 predicament, emergency, crisis, difficulty, dilemma, (ticklish or delicate) situation, complication, Colloq pickle, jam, scrape, Chiefly Brit crunch: Sue will help me out in a pinch.
PIOUS|0|adj. 1 devout, religious, reverent, reverential, worshipful, dutiful, God-fearing, godly, faithful, holy, dedicated, devoted, spiritual, moral, good, virtuous, right-minded, saintly, holy, angelic, seraphic, Christ-like, godlike: Francis is a pious boy who attends church regularly. 2 hypocritical, sanctimonious, pietistic, self-righteous, Pharisaic, mealy-mouthed, pretended, fraudulent, goody-goody, unctuous, oily, Colloq Brit smarmy: You are rationalizing your bad behaviour with a lot of pious cant.
PITCH|0|v. 1 toss, throw, cast, fling, hurl, heave, sling, fire, launch, shoot, send, let fly, Cricket bowl, Colloq chuck, peg, lob, Brit bung: He rolled the paper into a ball and pitched it into the basket. 2 erect, raise, set or put up, position, fix, place: We ought to pitch the tent in a level area. 3 plunge, fall (headlong), dive, drop, plummet, (take a) nosedive: I caught my toe on the kerb and pitched forward onto the pavement. 4 Chiefly nautical toss about, lurch, plunge, flounder, go head over heels, go keel over truck, US pitchpole or pitchpoll: The wind reached force ten as we pitched and rolled and yawed in the heavy seas. 5 pitch in. contribute, cooperate, help, assist, Colloq chip in: Everyone pitched in to make the church fair a success. 6 pitch into. a attack, lay into, assail, lash out at, abuse, rail against, Colloq lace into, tear into, jump down (someone's) throat, jump on: Reggie's wife really pitched into him about going out with other women. b attack, assault, set upon, belabour, Colloq light into, sail into, tear into: They pitched into each other and fought like Kilkenny cats. 7 pitch on or upon. determine, decide on, select, pick, choose, opt for, elect, nominate, name, Colloq light on: They pitched on Carrie to be the best candidate for treasurer.
PIVOT|0|n. 1 pintle, gudgeon, hinge, swivel, pin, kingpin, spindle, fulcrum: Use this stone as a pivot for the lever to lift the rock. 2 centre, heart, focal point, hub, nave, crux: The finance minister regards the interest rate as the pivot on which the economy turns. --v. 3 rotate, revolve, turn, spin, twirl, whirl, swivel: The flywheel pivots on a bearing that requires constant lubrication. 4 hinge, depend, hang, be contingent, revolve around, rely: The whole deal pivots on the cooperation of the banks.
PLACE|0|n. 1 location, site, position, point, spot, locus, area, locale, scene, setting: This looks like a nice place for a picnic. She likes to see a place for everything and everything in its place. 2 locale, area, neighbourhood, vicinity, district, section, part of the country, quarter, region; city, town, village, hamlet: She comes from some place near Glasgow. 3 status, station, standing, grade, rank, position, niche, slot, situation, estate, state, circumstance(s): Angela was just saying how difficult it is today to find a servant who knows his place. 4 function, role, part, purpose, duty, obligation, task, responsibility, charge, chore, burden, concern, mission: It is scarcely my place to remind you of your appointments with the dentist. 5 position, job, post, berth, appointment, livelihood; employment, occupation, Colloq billet: Is there a chance of my earning a place in your new company? 6 home, house, flat, apartment, room(s), quarters, lodgings, Rather formal residence, domicile, dwelling, abode, Colloq digs or diggings, pad: Why not stop by my place for tea on Sunday? 7 stead; lieu: As I cannot go, would you go in place of me? 8 position, situation, circumstances, condition: Put yourself in my place and I think you would have done exactly the same. 9 seat, chair, position: Kevin, please take your place at the head of the table. 10 go places. succeed, become successful, get ahead, advance, prosper, thrive, flourish, go up in the world, make good, strike it rich, Colloq arrive, make a splash, US and Canadian hit pay dirt, luck out: That boy will go places one day. 11 in place. a fitting, suitable, appropriate, right, proper, correct, good form: I don't think it in place for you to tell me what to do. b in situ, in (the right or proper or correct) position, ready, all set, set up, in order, all right, Colloq OK or okay: Is everything in place for tonight's party? 12 out of place. awkward, uncomfortable, unsuitable, inappropriate, wrong, improper, misplaced: Compass...
PLAIN|0|adj. 1 flat, smooth, even, featureless, level, plane: I'd rather have a paper with a plain surface, not an embossed one, for the bedroom walls. 2 clear, evident, simple, distinct, crystal clear, lucid, vivid, transparent, apparent, obvious, patent, self-evident, manifest, distinct, unmistakable or unmistakeable, unequivocal, unambiguous, understandable, intelligible, graphic, direct, in black and white: His intentions regarding my daughter are plain enough. The plain fact is that she despises him. 3 open, honest, straightforward, forthright, direct, frank, candid, blunt, outspoken, ingenuous, sincere, guileless, artless, unreserved: I want to see some plain talk between the two of us. 4 simple, unadorned, undecorated, unembellished, basic, austere, stark, unostentatious, colourless, drab, bare, unvarnished, Spartan: Don't you find the average business suit a very plain affair? 5 homely, unattractive, ordinary-looking, unlovely, ugly: Who would believe that such a plain child could become such a beautiful woman? --n. 6 prairie, grassland, pasture, meadow-land, veld or veldt, pampas, campo, llano, savannah or savanna, steppe, tundra, champaign or campagna; heath; moor, moorland; plateau, flatland; down, downland, Literary wold, Archaic or literary mead: The plain stretched out before us as far as the eye could see.
PLANE|0|n. 1 flat or level (surface): The lines meet in the same plane. 2 aeroplane, aircraft, airliner, jet (plane): I caught the next plane for Marrakesh. --adj. 3 flat, even, level, smooth, plain, regular, unbroken, uninterrupted, uniform, horizontal: We landed on the plane surface of the glacier. --v. 4 glide, skim, skate, skid, slip, slide: I swiftly planed along on my sailboard.
PLANT|0|n. 1 flower, vegetable, herb, bush, shrub, tree, vine, weed: Because of all the rain, the plants are flourishing this summer. 2 factory, mill, shop, works, workshop, foundry: The new plant in Crawley is hiring lathe operators. 3 equipment, machinery, apparatus; gear, fixtures: The plant includes heavy cranes, JCBs, earth movers, and bulldozers. 4 spy, (undercover or secret) agent, informer, informant: The new assistant is a plant, sent in by management to report on union activities. --v. 5 bed (out), sow, seed, set (out), transplant: We planted a herbaceous border along the south wall of the garden. 6 implant, establish, root, fix, ingrain, lodge, instil, insinuate, inject, introduce, impress, imprint: Who planted the idea in your mind that you were a gifted writer? 7 place, put, position, station, assign, situate: Watch-towers are planted at 50-foot intervals around the prison. 8 hide, secrete, conceal: The company has planted detectives in the store to watch out for shoplifters.
PLATE|0|n. 1 platter, dish, Archaic trencher, charger: I left the cold mashed potato on my plate. 2 course, serving, portion, dish, platter: I ordered their speciality, a plate of spaghetti. 3 layer, leaf, sheet, pane, panel, lamina, slab: In the condenser, insulation separates the thin metal plates. 4 coating, coat, plating, layer, lamination: The plate on our cutlery is wearing thin. 5 illustration, picture, print, US cut: The book contains many beautiful colour plates of flowers. --v. 6 cover, coat, overlay, face, laminate: All the serving dishes were plated with gold.
PLEAD|0|v. 1 Often, plead for. request, appeal (for), cry (for), ask (for), seek, beg (for), pray (for), supplicate (for): It was a hot day and the children were pleading for ice-creams every half hour. 2 Usually, plead with. request (of), entreat, appeal to, petition, ask, apply to, implore, beseech, beg, importune, solicit; demand: Bryan pleaded with us to let him go to the rock concert. 3 assert, say, aver, allege, argue, maintain, offer, put forward, declare, affirm, avow, swear: She pleaded that she was unaware that the goods she was selling had been stolen.
PLUSH|0|adj. luxurious, posh, costly, (de) luxe, palatial, lavish, rich, opulent, sumptuous, regal, elegant, Colloq ritzy, classy, Old-fashioned swank(y): I had no idea that you lived in such plush surroundings.
POINT|0|n. 1 dot, mark, speck; (full) stop, period; decimal point: The writing is smudged, but that looks like a point at the end of the line. 2 tip, peak, apex, spike, spur, prong, sharp end: Be careful of the point of that knife. 3 spot, place, stage, position; site, station, location, locale: We have reached the point of no return on that subject. I stopped at a few points along the way to admire the view. 4 time, moment, instant, juncture: At that point, we were summoned by the dinner bell. 5 focus, essence, meat, pith, quiddity, substance, heart, nucleus, crux, nub, core, bottom, details, Colloq guts, nitty-gritty: I wish he would stop all the palaver and get to the point. 6 purpose, intent, intention, aim, goal, object, objective, sense: What was the point of bringing that piece of gossip into the discussion? 7 thrust, drift, theme, purport, burden, import, implication, significance, signification, sense, meaning; application, applicability, relevancy, appropriateness: We found it difficult to see the point of the argument. 8 promontory, projection, headland, cape, peninsula: It may take us a day to sail round the point. 9 brink, verge: We were on the point of leaving when the guest of honour finally arrived. 10 detail, particular, item, element, nicety, aspect, facet, matter, issue, subject, question; specifics: Some of the points in her speech need clarification. 11 pointer, hint, suggestion, piece of advice, tip: The golf pro at the club gave me some good points on improving my swing. 12 thought, idea, consideration; notion, view, plan, tactic; something: That's a point to keep in mind if you buy another sailing-boat. 13 unit, tally, score: She made her point and went on to win the match. 14 attribute, characteristic, feature, aspect, trait, quality, side, property: I suppose he has his good points, too. 15 beside the point. irrelevant, inapt, inappropriate, malapropos, incidental, immaterial, unimportant, pointless, inconsequential: The fact that she's my sister i...
POISE|0|n. 1 balance, equilibrium, equipoise, equiponderance, parity, par: The chariots of the gods in even poise, obeying the rein, glide rapidly. 2 composure, control, self-possession, aplomb, assurance, dignity, equanimity, sang-froid, cool-headedness, imperturbability, presence of mind, coolness, staidness, reserve, sedateness, calmness, serenity, tranquillity, Colloq cool: Jane's poise is remarkable, despite the heckling by the audience. --v. 3 balance, be balanced, hover, hang, float; make or be or get ready, prepare: The boulder was poised on the edge of the cliff.
POLAR|0|adj. 1 Arctic, Antarctic, frigid, icy, glacial, freezing, frozen, numbing, Siberian, hibernal, hyperborean, brumal, wintry: It is positively polar in the house without the heat turned on. 2 opposite, opposed, antithetical, contrary, contradictory, diametric, antipodal, antagonistic, hostile: Dante felt Good and Evil to be the two polar elements of the Creation, on which it all turns.
POSIT|0|v. postulate, hypothesize, propound, put or set forth, put forward, advance, propose, pose, offer, submit, predicate: If we posit a downturn in prices next year, how does that affect our profit forecasts?
POUND|0|v. 1 beat, batter, pelt, hammer, pummel; thump, belabour, thrash, bludgeon, cudgel, maul, strike, Colloq lambaste, Slang paste, clobber, work over, give (someone) the works or a pasting: She pounded on the door till someone came. It was satisfying to see him pound the class bully into submission. 2 crush, powder, pulverize, bray, comminute, triturate, mash, pulp: The corn must be pounded into a fine meal before use. 3 beat, throb, hammer, pulse, pulsate, palpitate: My heart was pounding, waiting to see if the tiger would attack. 4 pound into. instil, din into, drill into, drub into, hammer into, beat into: Her parents have pounded into her that she must show respect to her elders. 5 pound out. rid, expel, clear, cleanse, empty, purge, beat out, hammer out: The last bit of stubbornness was pounded out of me at school. 6 beat out; hammer out, produce: The jungle drums pounded out the message that Tarzan was coming. --n. 7 pounding, beat, beating, thump, thumping: The pound of horses' hooves heralded the arrival of the cavalry.
POWER|0|n. 1 Sometimes, powers. capacity, capability, ability, potential, faculty, competency or competence, faculty, potentiality, Colloq what it takes, US the (right) stuff, the goods: Fishes have the power to change their buoyancy. He has remarkable powers of observation. 2 control, dominance, authority, mastery, rule, influence, sway, command, ascendancy, sovereignty, dominion, weight, clout, Colloq pull, US drag: He maintains a Svengali-like power over her. The prime minister has the power to appoint and dismiss cabinet ministers. 3 control, command, authority: The party might not be in power for very long. 4 strength, might, vigour, energy, force, mightiness, potency, forcefulness, brawn, muscle, Literary puissance: His speech was delivered with great power and a certain wit. Has she the power it takes to toss the caber? 5 talent, skill, ability, faculty, gift, aptitude, genius, knack: They say that she has the power to see into the future. 6 authority, licence, right, authorization, privilege, warrant, prerogative: By the power vested in me, I now declare you man and wife. It is within her power to grant a stay of execution. 7 Often, powers. activity, effectiveness, effect, ability, capacity, active ingredient(s): This mushroom has hallucinogenic powers. 8 energy, momentum, impetus, drive, force, inertia: The car rolled halfway up the next hill under its own power. 9 (mechanical or electrical or atomic) energy, electricity, fuel: Yesterday there was another demonstration against the use of nuclear power. 10 powers that be. government, administration, authorities, incumbents: It is up to the powers that be to investigate corruption.
PRCIS|0|n. outline, summary, synopsis, aperúu, r÷sum÷, conspectus, survey, overview, abstract, abridgement, digest, compendium, recapitulation; table of contents: As I haven't the time to read the entire study document, let me have a pr÷cis of it.
PREEN|0|v. 1 trim, clean, plume, groom: The gliding swans stopped now and then to preen their feathers. 2 primp, dress up, titivate or tittivate, prettify, beautify, prink, spruce up, deck (out), Colloq doll up, Brit tart up: He made Sonia wait while he preened himself before the mirror.
PRESS|0|v. 1 subject to or exert pressure or force, force, push, impel, thrust, bear (on), weigh on or upon, jam, cram, crush; pressure or Brit also pressurize: The crowd was pressing against the door. Although hard pressed at first, we eventually won. 2 squeeze, compress, depress, push: When the picture is in focus, press this button to release the shutter. 3 squeeze, crush, compress, mash: After harvesting, the grapes are pressed to extract the juice. 4 iron, smooth, flatten, put through a mangle; steam: I shall have to press my jacket before going out to dinner. 5 clasp, embrace, hug, hold (close or tight(ly)), take in one's arms, throw one's arms about or around, cleave to, Archaic clip: She pressed the child to her with great affection. 6 constrain, urge, force, pressure, compel, demand, persuade, induce, prod, provoke, importune, beseech, ask, request, beg, entreat: They pressed me to tell where the money was hidden. 7 crowd, flock, gather, mill, swarm, throng, seethe, cluster, congregate, meet, converge, huddle: The reporters pressed round the chancellor to catch every word. --n. 8 crowding, gathering, thronging, converging, convergence, crowd, throng, swarm, cluster, huddle, pack, herd, host, multitude, horde, mob, crush: When the doors opened, the huge press of people pushed onto the train. 9 urgency, haste, hurry, hustle, bustle, pressure, stress: The press of business required me to postpone my trip to Paris. 10 the press. a newspapers, the papers, Fleet Street, the fourth estate, the media, the wire or news services, broadcasting, television, radio: The press will have a field-day when this news gets out. b newspaper people, newspapermen or newspaperwomen, newsmen or newswomen, reporters, correspondents, ladies or gentlemen of the press, journalists, commentators, paparazzi, Brit leader-writers, US editorial writers, Colloq news-hounds, Brit journos: The doors were opened and the press were invited in.
PRICE|0|n. 1 charge, cost, expense, expenditure, outlay, payment, amount, figure, fee; quotation, appraisal, value, valuation, evaluation, worth: The price of this lamp is too high. What is the price of that box? Can he afford the price of a ticket? The current price of a London flat is out of my reach. 2 sacrifice, toll, penalty, cost, consequence: Loss of his freedom was too high a price for standing by his principles. 3 reward, bounty, premium, prize, payment, bonus, honorarium, Literary guerdon: The gunfighter had a price of ø1000 on his head. 4 without price. See priceless, 1, below. --v. 5 value, evaluate, rate, assay, assess, cost (out): How would you price a piece of furniture like this chair?
PRICK|0|n. 1 puncture, pinhole, pinprick; hole, perforation: For the blood test, the doctor made a tiny prick in my finger with a needle. 2 sting, pinch, twinge, prickle, tingle, pain: The teacher leapt from her chair the instant she felt the prick of the tack. --v. 3 puncture, pierce, stab, jab, punch, perforate, riddle; lance: Using a pin, prick tiny holes in the paper to let the steam escape. The doctor pricked a boil on my neck. 4 stab, sting, hurt, prickle, pinch, bite, smart: The hypodermic needle really pricked me when it went in.
PRIDE|0|n. 1 honour, proudness, self-esteem, self-respect, amour propre, dignity: It is gratifying to be able to look with pride on one's children's achievements. 2 conceit, egotism, self-importance, vanity, hubris, arrogance, overconfidence, overweeningness, self-admiration, self-love, self-importance, smugness, haughtiness, hauteur, snobbery, snobbishness, Colloq uppitiness: Pride goeth before a fall. Her pride stems from an exaggerated notion of her own worth. 3 boast, flower, best, prize, pride and joy, treasure, jewel, gem: Those model railway trains are Eustace's pride and joy. --v. 4 Usually, pride oneself on. be proud of, take pride in, delight in, revel in, celebrate, glory in: Irena prides herself on having made her own way in life, without anyone's help.
PRIME|0|adj. 1 See primary, 1, above. 2 best, foremost, chief; first-rate, first-class, choice, select, superior, pre-eminent, leading, ranking, predominant, unparalleled, matchless, peerless, noteworthy, outstanding, admirable, worthy, exceptional, excellent, extraordinary, exceptional: She is a prime example of the results of a modern education. Arthur is certainly a prime candidate for the position. 3 original, fundamental, basic, elemental, elementary: The prime cause of scurvy is lack of fresh fruit and vegetables. --n. 4 youth, springtime; best years, heyday, pinnacle, acme, peak, zenith: Some people reach the prime of life at 60. --v. 5 (make or get) ready, prepare, educate, teach, instruct, coach, train, tutor, drill: Has Sonia been fully primed to take over the chairmanship when Sir William steps down? 6 inform, advise, notify, apprise, brief: Having read your book, I am fully primed on American history.
PRIMP|0|v. preen, prink, prettify, titivate or tittivate, plume, dress up, groom, Colloq doll up, get (all) dolled up, spruce up, put on one's best bib and tucker, Chiefly Brit tart up, get (all) tarted up, Slang deck out, trick out or up, put on one's glad rags, Brit fig out, US gussy up, get (all) gussied up, dude up: She was primping before the mirror, awaiting the arrival of her beau.
PRINT|0|v. 1 impress, imprint, stamp, publish, issue, run off, put out; copy; (pull a) proof: We decided to print 500 copies of the book. You may have your name printed on the cover for an additional amount. --n. 2 reproduction, copy, replica, facsimile; positive, photograph, etching, (steel or wood-)engraving, lithograph, woodcut, linocut, silk screen, rotogravure, Trade Mark Xerox; picture, illustration; Colloq photo, cut, pic (pl. pix): Today, a good print of a Picasso costs more than an original did fifty years ago. 3 text, printed matter, type, writing; language, wording, (choice of) words, phrasing: You'd be well advised to read the small print before signing the agreement.
PRIOR|0|adj. 1 former, previous, earlier, one-time, ex, erstwhile; old, last, late, latest, Literary quondam, whilom: If you overdraw your account without prior arrangement, you will automatically be charged a higher rate of interest. 2 prior to. before, previous to, previously to, till, until, preceding: Prior to the earthquake, Valdivia was a river port.
PRIVY|0|adj. 1 See privileged, 4, above. 2 privy to. aware of, in on, on to or onto, sharing (in), cognizant of, apprised of, informed or advised about or of, informed on, knowledgeable about, Colloq in the know about, Slang hip to, wise to, Old-fashioned hep to: Was the minister's wife privy to what was discussed at cabinet meetings? --n. 3 lavatory, (outside or outdoor) toilet, latrine, water-closet, WC, US outhouse, Colloq chiefly Brit loo, Slang Brit bog, US crapper, Taboo slang US shithouse: In those days, almost every home had an outside privy, as there was no interior plumbing.
PROBE|0|v. 1 explore, examine, scrutinize, investigate, search (into), look into, go into, study, dig into, delve into, poke about or around, Colloq poke into: They probed his background thoroughly but found nothing unusual. 2 poke, prod, explore, examine; plumb, dig: Snipe use their long bills to probe for worms in soft mud. --n. 3 investigation, examination, exploration, scrutiny, search, study, inquiry or enquiry, inquest: There will be a governmental probe into the mismanagement of the department.
PRONE|0|adj. 1 face down or downwards or chiefly US downward, prostrate, lying down, reclining, recumbent, horizontal, procumbent, Formal or technical decumbent, accumbent: She was lying prone, resting between push-ups. 2 inclined, apt, likely, liable, disposed, predisposed, of a mind, subject, given, tending, leaning: They are prone to petty squabbles.
PROOF|0|n. 1 evidence, verification, corroboration, confirmation, validation, authentication, ratification, substantiation; documentation, document, facts, data, certification, testimony, Colloq ammunition: Is there any proof that she was with you? The prosecution claims to have enough proof of his guilt to convict him of embezzlement. 2 test, trial, measure, standard, touchstone, criterion: Do you intend to put his loyalty to the proof? The proof of the pudding is in the eating. --adj. 3 impervious, impenetrable, able to withstand or resist, protective, strong, tough, impregnable, resistant, tempered: They maintain that this armour is proof against a nine-inch shell.
PROSE|0|n. (expository) writing, text, language: It came as a great revelation to learn that he had been speaking prose all his life.
PROUD|0|adj. 1 Often, proud of. pleased (with), satisfied (with), contented (with), glad (about), happy (with or about), delighted (with or about), elated (with or about); honoured, gratified: He is very proud of his children and what they have achieved. I am proud to be your friend. 2 conceited, boastful, self-satisfied, narcissistic, self-important, egotistical, vain, vainglorious, prideful, self-centred, complacent, snobbish, haughty, supercilious, smug, arrogant, cocky, cocksure, boastful, braggart, Colloq high and mighty, snooty, stuck-up, Slang snotty, Brit toffee-nosed: She's far too proud to have anything to do with the likes of us. 3 lofty, dignified, lordly, noble, great, respected, honoured, honourable, important, glorious, august, illustrious, estimable, creditable, eminent, prominent, distinguished, reputable, worthy, notable, noted, noteworthy: His will always be a proud name in British military history. 4 stately, majestic, magnificent, splendid, grand: Proud Edinburgh earned the sobriquet, 'Athens of the north'.
PROVE|0|v. 1 verify, authenticate, confirm, make good, corroborate, demonstrate, show, validate, establish, substantiate, certify, affirm; support, sustain, back (up), uphold: Prove that he lied under oath, and we shall have him for perjury. If you cannot prove her guilt, she must be presumed innocent. 2 try, test, examine, check, analyse, assay: Division can easily be proved by multiplication, and vice versa. The proving ground for military vehicles is off limits to the public. Come live with me and be my love, And we shall all the pleasures prove. 3 turn out, be found, be shown, be established, end up; develop, result: The child proved to be his long-lost grandson. 4 show, evince, demonstrate: He proved his love many times over during their fifty years of marriage.
PROWL|0|v. 1 lurk, sneak, skulk, steal, slink: I thought I saw someone prowling about in your back garden. 2 scour, scavenge, range over, rove, roam, patrol, cruise, cover: The police continued to prowl the waterfront looking for smugglers. --n. 3 on the prowl. lurking or sneaking or skulking or stealing or slinking about or around, searching, seeking, hunting, tracking, stalking: The lioness was on the prowl for wildebeest. After a few drinks, the boys went on the prowl for some female companionship.
PROXY|0|n. substitute, agent, delegate, surrogate, representative, factor: As I was unable to attend the owners' meeting, I sent Jane as my proxy.
PRUDE|0|n. prig, puritan, Mrs Grundy, Colloq goody-goody, US bluenose: He was a bit of a prude and disapproved of anything even slightly suggestive.
PRUNE|0|v. clip, cut back, lop, dock, pare (down), trim: If you prune fruit trees, they bear more abundantly. We have to prune the entertainment budget.
PULSE|0|n. 1 beat, beating, throb, throbbing, pulsing, pulsating, pulsation, pounding, thrumming, drumming, thumping, thudding, reverberation, reverberating, hammering, palpitation, palpitating, vibration, vibrating: The pulse of the jungle drums became louder and faster. --v. 2 See pulsate, above.
PUNCH|0|v. 1 hit, clip, jab, whack, thwack, knock, smack, box, pummel, strike, cuff, Colloq clout, bop, slug, wallop, thump, lambaste, slam, Slang sock, biff, plug, belt, lace (into), US paste: Anyone says anything about my girl, I'll punch him in the jaw! --n. 2 clip, jab, whack, thwack, knock, smack, box, cuff, upper-cut, left or right, Colloq clout, bop, slug, wallop, thump, slam, Slang sock, belt, biff, haymaker, plug, paste: The punch knocked him down. 3 effect, impact, effectiveness, force, forcefulness, power, vitality, gusto, vigour, life, vim, zest, ginger, Colloq it, oomph, what it takes, Slang zing, zip: These advertisements are pretty, but they are lacking in punch.
PUPIL|0|n. student, learner, scholar, schoolchild, schoolgirl, schoolboy, disciple, apprentice; beginner, novice, neophyte, tiro or tyro, Chiefly ecclesiastical catechumen: A number of Geoffrey's former pupils have organized a dinner to honour him.
PURSE|0|n. 1 pouch, (money-)bag, wallet, pocket, Dialect poke, Highland dress sporran, US and Canadian (woman's) handbag, pocketbook, bag: The money goes out so fast I think there is a hole in my purse. 2 money, wealth, resources, funds, finances, exchequer, treasury, capital, revenue, income, means, cash, riches; pounds, shillings, and pence, L.S.D., dollars, shekels, Derogatory Mammon, pelf, (filthy) lucre, US almighty dollar, Slang Brit ready or readies, lolly, dosh, loot, dough, US and Canadian bucks, scratch: The spread of capitalism shows that the power of a man's purse can transcend his political idealism. 3 prize, reward, award, present, gift: The purse for the next race will be 5,000 guineas. --v. 4 pucker (up), contract, wrinkle, compress, press together: Robert pursed his lips thoughtfully.
PUSHY|0|adj. forward, (self-)assertive, forceful, aggressive, obnoxious, arrogant, bumptious, brassy, brazen, impertinent, insolent, pushing, presumptuous, officious, loud, showy, cocky, brash, offensive, bold, Colloq cheeky: I hate pushy salesmen who won't take 'No' for an answer.
PUTON|0|n. 1 deception, hoax, trick, leg-pull, jest, (practical) joke, prank, pretence, Colloq spoof: He was completely taken in by my put-on about being from the Nobel prize committee. 2 take-off, parody, satire, burlesque, caricature, act, Brit send-up, Colloq spoof: You shouldn't be offended, it was only a put-on.
PUTUP|0|adj. (secretly) preconceived, prearranged, plotted, preconcerted: If the butler had a hand in it, you know it was a put-up job.
QUEEN|0|n. 1 sovereign, monarch, ruler; empress; queen consort; queen mother; queen dowager: She was absolutely thrilled when she was invited to a garden party at Buckingham Palace and met the Queen. 2 beauty queen, movie queen, star, prima donna, diva; epitome, model, idol, leading light, cynosure, leader: At the height of her career, she was known as 'the Queen of the Silver Screen'. 'Queen of the Antilles' was once a nickname of Cuba.
QUEER|0|adj. 1 odd, strange, different, peculiar, funny, curious, uncommon, unconventional, unorthodox, atypical, singular, exceptional, anomalous, extraordinary, unusual, weird, bizarre, uncanny, unnatural, freakish, remarkable, offbeat, irregular, unparalleled, incongruous, outlandish, outr÷, exotic, eccentric, fey, quaint, absurd, ridiculous, ludicrous, unexampled: How do you explain Basil's queer behaviour at the office party? Her attire could only be described as queer, given her age and status. 2 questionable, dubious, suspicious, suspect, doubtful, puzzling, mysterious, Colloq fishy, shady: We had a feeling that something queer was going on when the clocks started running backwards. 3 (slightly) ill, queasy, sick, unwell, poorly, faint, uneasy, dizzy, giddy, vertiginous, light-headed: It's not surprising that you feel queer after drinking all that wine. 4 mad, unbalanced, unhinged, demented, deranged, insane, daft, touched, Colloq dotty, potty, nutty, nuts, loony, batty, cracked: Francis seems to have gone a bit queer - fancies himself a reincarnation of Cicero. --v. 5 ruin, spoil, bungle, botch, muddle, muff, mar, wreck, destroy, Colloq make a hash or mess of, gum up (the works), Slang muck up, screw up, louse up, US ball up, Taboo slang Brit balls up: Grimstone queered the deal by telling the buyer the company was worth half what we were asking.
QUEST|0|n. 1 search, pursuit, exploration, expedition, voyage (of discovery), pilgrimage, mission, crusade; chase, hunt: When a child, he was inspired by the legend of Sir Launcelot's quest for the Holy Grail. --v. 2 Usually, quest after or for. seek (after or for), search after or for, hunt (for), track down, pursue, stalk: In 1928, joined by his father, he quested for gold along the Orinoco river.
QUICK|0|adj. 1 rapid, fast, speedy, swift, fleet; expeditious, express: We made a quick descent to reach the camp before dark. The hand is quicker than the eye. Can you arrange the quick delivery of this parcel to Aylesbury? 2 sudden, precipitate, hasty, brisk, short, abrupt, hurried, perfunctory, summary; immediate, prompt, timely, instantaneous: There is no quick answer to your question about the causes of World War II. Don't be so quick to criticize others. I had a quick response to my letter complaining about service. 3 agile, lively, nimble, energetic, vigorous, alert, animated, keen, sharp, acute, spry, spirited, vivacious, rapid, swift: In three quick steps she was at my side. Antonia is known for her quick mind. 4 intelligent, bright, brilliant, facile, adept, adroit, dexterous, apt, able, expert, skilful, deft, astute, clever, shrewd, smart, ingenious, perceptive, perspicacious, discerning, far-sighted, responsive; nimble-witted, quick-witted: You can rely on Rob's quick thinking to come up with a solution to the problem. 5 excitable, touchy, testy, petulant, irascible, irritable, impatient: She said that I have a quick temper because of my red hair.
QUIET|0|adj. 1 silent, soundless, noiseless, hushed, still: We have to be very quiet so as not to wake the children. 2 still, serene, silent, peaceful, unperturbed, calm, tranquil, placid, pacific, smooth, mild, restful, unagitated: The sea was very quiet as we rowed towards the beach. 3 dormant, quiescent, inactive, retired, withdrawn, unobtrusive: His last days were spent living a quiet life in the Outer Hebrides. 4 still, motionless, unmoving, fixed, stationary, at rest, inactive, composed, temperate, unexcited, calm: There was a knock at the door and everyone suddenly became quiet. --n. 5 silence, stillness, soundlessness, noiselessness, hush, quietness, quietude, ease, rest, calmness, serenity, tranquillity, peace, peace of mind, repose: In the quiet of the cave I could hear my heart beating. --v. 6 See quieten, below.
QUITE|0|adv. 1 completely, very, totally, utterly, entirely, from head to toe, from A to Z, fully, wholly, thoroughly, unequivocally, absolutely, perfectly, altogether, unreservedly: Her trouble is that she is quite certain of many things that are simply not the case. The last time I saw him, he was quite drunk. 2 rather, fairly, moderately, somewhat, relatively, to some or a certain extent or degree, noticeably: I thought that the paintings were quite well done. 3 rather: We had quite a good dinner last night. 4 very much, totally, entirely, wholly, altogether; really, actually, truly, definitely, positively, undoubtedly, indubitably, absolutely, unequivocally, certainly, surely, unreservedly, honestly: What you are talking about is quite another matter. Your home-made chutney is quite the best I have ever tasted.
QUOTE|0|v. 1 cite, mention, recite, repeat, retell, reproduce, duplicate, call up, bring up, bring in, instance, exemplify, refer to, reference, extract, excerpt: Let me quote to you the relevant passage from Paradise Lost . --n. 2 See quotation, above.
RABID|0|adj. 1 unreasonable, unreasoning, extreme, fanatical; raging, furious, violent, crazed, frenzied, maniacal, wild, mad, infuriated, frenetic, berserk: Please don't mention politics to Nigel - he gets rabid on the subject. 2 hydrophobic, mad: Animals from abroad are kept in quarantine to make sure they are not rabid.
RADIO|0|n. 1 receiver, portable (radio), Old-fashioned crystal set, Brit and US old-fashioned wireless, Colloq transistor, Slang ghetto-blaster, Brit tranny or trannie, US boom box: He listens to BBC World Service on his short-wave radio. --v. 2 transmit, broadcast, air, disseminate, announce, present: Weather reports are radioed continuously to ships at sea and aircraft.
RAISE|0|v. 1 lift (up), elevate; hoist, pull up, haul up, run up, Literary upraise: She raised the glass to her lips. We raised the mainsail and sailed out of the harbour. 2 erect, put up, construct, build, produce, create, put together, assemble, frame: With the help of some neighbours, the barn was raised in less than a day. 3 farm, grow, cultivate, plant, bring up, nurture, harvest, propagate: During that year's mild winter, we were able to raise three crops. 4 bring up, nurture, rear; mother, father, parent: His grandmother raised ten children, six girls and four boys. 5 assemble, gather, bring or gather or get together, muster, mobilize, round up, rally, collect, convene, recruit, Colloq pull together: Do you think you could raise an army quickly enough to defend us against attack? 6 increase, boost, advance, put up, jack up, run up, inflate, escalate: Why are consumer petrol prices always raised at the vaguest hint of an increase in oil prices? 7 cultivate, foster, nurture, heighten, stimulate, buoy, lift, uplift, boost, arouse, quicken, encourage, develop: The news about the new company raised our hopes of finding jobs. 8 open, introduce, initiate, broach, bring up, bring or put forward, present, suggest, mention, moot: It is regrettable that you saw fit to raise such a delicate issue. 9 remove, relieve, lift, abandon, eliminate, discontinue, (bring to an) end, terminate: Restrictions on travel to south-east Asia were about to be raised. 10 cause, provoke, evoke, occasion, put or set in motion, institute, prompt, engender, stir up, instigate, inspire, give rise to, bring about, arouse, originate: Objections to the relaxation of safety regulations were raised by relatives of the victims of the earlier disaster. 11 utter, express, bring up, put forward, shout, call: Was it you who raised the alarm at the first sign of smoke? 12 assemble, obtain, get, collect, amass, solicit: We raised twice as much for charity as last year. 13 invigorate, animate, vitalize, vivify, buo...
RALLY|0|n. 1 gathering, (mass) meeting, meet, convocation, convention, assemblage, assembly, muster: There is to be a political rally tonight in the town square. Are you taking your Daimler to the vintage car rally? 2 recovery, improvement, revival, turn for the better, recuperation, renewal: His doctors said that the rally might be only temporary. --v. 3 Often, rally round. bring or call or get together, round up, assemble, convene, group, congregate, organize, come together, troop; marshal, mobilize, summon, gather, muster: All Sally's friends rallied round her when her father died. He rallied every last ounce of strength in the dash for the finishing line. 4 revive, rouse, recover, improve, get better, take a turn for the better, recuperate, perk up, pick up, Colloq snap out of it, make a comeback: According to the nurse, he rallied during the night and asked for something to eat.
RANDY|0|adj. aroused, lustful, lecherous, Brit on heat or US in heat, Brit in oestrus or US in estrus, Slang hot, horny, in rut, rutting, at stud: Seeing Betty always made Len feel terribly randy.
RANGE|0|n. 1 scope, sweep, reach, limit, extent, span, area, radius, distance, compass, latitude, stretch, sphere, orbit: The gun has a range of about 200 yards. This radio transmitter is effective only within a thirty-mile range. The minister is trying to broaden the range of his influence. 2 assortment, series, collection, lot, spread, selection, choice, number, variety, kind, sort, scale, gamut, register: The courses offered cater to a wide range of interests. 3 rank, row, tier, line, file, series, string, chain: From my window I could see the range of hills stretching away into the distance. 4 kitchen range, (cooking-) stove, Chiefly Brit cooker, Brit trade mark Aga, US cook-stove: In every French farmhouse there was always a pot of soup on the range. --v. 5 line up, rank, order, align, order, array: The teacher ranged the children according to their height. 6 vary, fluctuate, spread, run the gamut, extend, stretch, run, go: The students range in age from eight to eighty. 7 organize, categorize, catalogue, arrange, classify, sort, class, group, rank, bracket, pigeon-hole, file, index, break down, grade, distribute: The books are ranged according to their subject-matter. 8 cover, traverse, roam, rove, travel over or across, go or pass over, drift, migrate, wander, move, extend: The wildebeest ranges far and wide over vast tracts of grazing land in Africa.
RAPID|0|adj. quick, fast, swift, speedy, high-speed, brisk, expeditious, prompt, express, fleet, lightning(-fast), alacritous; hurried, hasty, precipitate, impetuous, immediate, instantaneous, instant, sudden: The company we use offers rapid delivery service. What do you suppose occasioned Flannery's rapid departure?
RATIO|0|n. proportion, relationship, correlation, correspondence: What is the ratio of male to female students at Oxford University? In that area, the ratio of tenants to home-owners is about two to one.
RATTY|0|adj. 1 irritable, cross, testy, touchy, annoyed, crabbed, irritated, angry, short-tempered, impatient, disagreeable: He's always ratty in the mornings when he has a hangover. 2 dirty, greasy, straggly, unkempt, matted: His hair was all ratty and he hadn't bathed in a month.
REACH|0|v. 1 Often, reach out. hold out, extend, stretch (out), stick out, thrust out, outstretch, outreach: He reached out his hand and graped mine warmly. 2 arrive at, get to, come to, go to, end up at or in; land at or in, Colloq make (it to): I won't reach the office till noon today. Have we reached the point of no return? 3 get, get in touch with, communicate with, establish or make contact with, get through to, get (a) hold of: I tried to reach her at home, but she was out. 4 attain, achieve, accomplish, make, get or go to, get or go as far as: Do you think that McClintock will reach the semi-finals? 5 come or go or get up to, amount to, attain, climb to, rise to, run to, equal, match: It looks as though the trade deficit might reach last year's figure. 6 get through or across to, register with, communicate with, reach into the mind of, impress, influence, sway, move, stir, carry weight with: It is very difficult for teachers to reach teenagers, who have a natural suspicion of adults. --n. 7 range, ambit, scope, orbit, compass, sphere, territory: Those outlying areas are beyond our reach. Padua is within easy reach of Venice. 8 capability, capacity: Tragedy often occurs when one's ambition exceeds one's reach.
REACT|0|v. 1 act, behave, conduct oneself, proceed; retaliate, reciprocate, get even: I wonder how you would have reacted if someone had insulted you! 2 respond, answer, reply, retort: The crowd reacted to the police presence by becoming very nasty. She reacted with surprise on learning of his arrest.
READY|0|adj. 1 prepared, (all) set, in readiness, in (proper) shape; up, primed, ripe, fit, in condition; Colloq psyched (up): The charge is ready for detonation. I'm ready for a good run in the park. Are these apples ready for eating? Are you ready to meet the girl of your dreams? 2 agreeable, consenting, acquiescent, willing, content, eager, keen, happy, cheerful, genial, gracious, cordial, friendly, well-disposed, enthusiastic, Colloq game: Tim was always a ready accomplice to any mischief devised by his brother. 3 apt, likely, inclined, disposed, given, prone: She was all too ready to believe anything she was told. 4 about, liable, likely, apt; on the verge of, subject to, in danger of, on the brink of, on the point of, close to: The volcano seemed ready to erupt at any moment. 5 prompt, rapid, quick, immediate, speedy, swift, punctual, timely: Alistair seems to have a ready answer for everything. 6 clever, keen, sharp, agile, deft, skilful, adroit, alert, bright, intelligent, perceptive, quick: It was Carlotta's ready wit that first attracted me. 7 on or at or to hand, handy, available, accessible, at (one's) fingertips, at the ready, close at hand, convenient: I don't have the ready cash for a new car at the moment. --n. 8 readies. money, cash, wherewithal: If you have the readies, please pay me what you owe me. 9 at the ready. a waiting, on tap, expectant, in position, poised: Keep your pistol at the ready in case there's trouble. b See 8, above. --v. 10 prepare, make or get ready, set, fit out, equip, organize, psych up: He readied himself as best he could for the ordeal.
REALM|0|n. 1 domain, kingdom, empire, monarchy, principality, palatinate, duchy or dukedom: They searched the realm for a girl whose foot would fit into the glass slipper. 2 territory, area, bailiwick, department, responsibility, jurisdiction: Collecting taxes is not within the realm of our office. 3 area, confines, sphere, limits: Cooperation with foreign companies is certainly well within the realms of possibility.
REBEL|0|v. 1 revolt, mutiny, rise up: The people will rebel if subjected to more oppression. 2 Often, rebel against. defy, flout, dare, challenge; disobey, dissent: It is in the nature of young people to rebel against authority and the status quo. --n. 3 revolutionary, revolutionist, insurgent, insurrrectionist, mutineer, resister, resistance fighter, freedom fighter: We call ourselves fighters for justice, but the unjust call us rebels and traitors. 4 heretic, nonconformist, apostate, dissenter, recusant, schismatic: James's problem was that he was a rebel without a cause.
REBUT|0|v. refute, deny, disprove, confute, invalidate, negate, discredit, belie, contradict, controvert, puncture, expose, destroy, ruin, devastate, Colloq shoot full of holes, knock the bottom out of, shoot down, blow sky-high: We have all the evidence needed to rebut the contention that our client was anywhere near the scene of the crime.
RECUR|0|v. return, happen or occur again, reoccur, repeat, come (back) again, reappear: The condition recurred after a year, and he was obliged to have another operation.
REFER|0|v. 1 Often, refer to. allude to, make reference to, mention, make mention of, touch on, bring up, advert to, speak of, turn or call or direct attention to, direct to, point to, indicate, specify, name, concern, quote, cite, make a note of, take note of, note: A footnote refers to the author's article on netsukes. 2 assign, hand over, pass on or over, send, direct, commit: I was referred to your office for information about rates. The question will be referred to committee. 3 Usually, refer to. look at, use, study, check, consult, resort to, have recourse to, turn to, appeal to, confer with; talk to, ask, inquire or enquire of, apply to: For information about words, you should refer to a dictionary. Refer to the departmental office for Professor Clarke's address. 4 Usually, refer to. mean, signify, denote, say: What are you referring to?
REGAL|0|adj. 1 royal, kingly, queenly, princely, fit for or befitting a king or queen, noble, lordly, sovereign, majestic, imperial, stately, splendid, magnificent, grand, resplendent, palatial, exalted: The regal throne was decorated with gold and precious stones. 2 disdainful, haughty, proud, scornful, contumelious, contemptuous, derisory, derisive, pompous, lordly: She was dismissed with a regal wave of the hand.
REIGN|0|n. 1 rule, sovereignty, ascendancy, power, hegemony, influence, command, suzerainty, administration, jurisdiction, leadership, government, direction, control, domination, mastery; kingdom, monarchy, empire: During her reign, the kingdom saw its greatest prosperity. --v. 2 rule, control, command, govern, lead, direct, dominate, supervise, manage, hold sway, wear the crown, wield the sceptre, occupy the throne, Colloq run the show, rule the roost, Slang call the shots: During the sixth Egyptian dynasty, Pepi II Nefektare reigned for 94 years, the longest in recorded history. 3 prevail, be or become prevalent, predominate, hold sway, obtain, be or become rampant, be or become universal: An argument broke out, which developed into a fist fight, and soon pandemonium reigned.
RELAX|0|v. 1 loosen, let go, release, let up (on), relieve, ease, reduce, moderate, slacken, remit, Colloq ease up on, slacken up on: He relaxed his grip on the rope and fell to his death on the rocks below. 2 diminish, decrease, lessen, reduce, abate, weaken, mitigate, modify, tone down, moderate, modulate, lighten (up on), check, temper, curb: We must not relax our vigilance. I hope that they don't relax the regulations concerning smoking in the office. 3 ease up, slow down, loosen up, put one's feet up, rest, unbend, Colloq take it easy, unwind: Why not come for a weekend and relax a bit? 4 calm down, cool down, quiet down, stay calm, cool and collected, Colloq take it easy, Slang cool it: You ought to relax and not get so excited.
RELIC|0|n. 1 memento, keepsake, memorial, remembrance, souvenir, heirloom, token, artefact or artifact: It has been argued again and again that the Turin shroud, though old, is not a genuine relic of Christ. 2 remains; fragment, trace, scrap, shard or sherd, remnant: Deep in the jungle, archaeologists unearthed relics of a previously unknown civilization.
REMIT|0|v. 1 send, transmit, forward, dispatch or despatch; pay, compensate, settle, liquidate: We have remitted in full the amount requested. 2 abate, diminish, slacken, decrease, lessen, subside, alleviate, mitigate, assuage, ebb, dwindle, reduce, relax, ease (up or off), fall off: The fever ought to remit on the sixth day.
RENEW|0|v. 1 restore, refresh, rejuvenate, revitalize, reinvigorate, resuscitate, revamp, redo, rehabilitate, transform, regenerate, refurbish, refurnish, renovate, refit, overhaul, recondition, modernize, redecorate, do over: The entire interior of the hotel has been renewed at considerable expense. 2 resume, resurrect, restart, pick or take up again, recommence, return to, reopen: They renewed their argument in favour of the teaching of Latin. 3 restore, replace, restock, replenish: We must renew our supply of claret. 4 repeat, reiterate, reaffirm, confirm, reconfirm, restate, reassert: Each autumn she renews her promise to return in the spring.
REPAY|0|v. pay back, recompense, compensate, requite, reciprocate, return the favour or compliment, reward, square with, settle (up) with; refund, give back, return, reimburse, restore: How can I ever repay you for what you have done? Alan repaid the money he borrowed from me.
REPEL|0|v. 1 repulse, drive back or away or off, reject, fend off, parry, ward off, hold off, rebuff, resist, withstand, keep at bay or arm's length: They were completely defenceless and unable to repel attackers. 2 revolt, offend, disgust, sicken, nauseate, turn one's stomach, make one's skin crawl, Colloq give one the creeps, turn one off: The idea of eating sheep's eyes repels me.
REPLY|0|v. 1 answer, respond, rejoin, retort, return, come back, acknowledge: When I asked where he had been, he refused to reply and walked out of the room. --n. 2 answer, response, rejoinder, retort, comeback, riposte, reaction, US rise: I have written to the prime minister but as yet have had no reply.
REVEL|0|v. 1 Usually, revel in. (take) delight (in), take pleasure (in), rejoice (in), luxuriate (in), bask (in), wallow(in), lap up, crow (about or over), glory (in), savour, relish: Gavin revelled in the news that his ex-wife was remarrying and he would no longer have to pay her alimony. 2 make merry, carouse, celebrate, cut loose, go on a spree, Colloq live it up, whoop it up, make whoopee, whoop it up, paint the town red, party, Brit push the boat out, Slang Brit have a rave or rave-up: The night after exams finish, the students traditionally revel till dawn. --n. 3 spree, party, merrymaking, debauch, carouse, festival, féte, carousal, celebration, gala, ball, romp, fling, carnival, jamboree, bacchanal, saturnalia: Everyone joined in the revels on New Year's Eve, and had a good time.
RIDGE|0|n. crest, line, strip, top edge, aréte: The mountain ridge was partly obscured by clouds.
RIFLE|0|v. 1 rob, loot, ransack, plunder, despoil, burgle, pillage, US burglarize: We caught the man who had rifled the till. 2 search, ransack, go through, rummage through: She rifled through the files till the will was found.
RIGHT|0|adj. 1 just, moral, good, proper, correct, legal, lawful, licit, honest, upright, righteous, virtuous, ethical, fair, true, honourable, right-minded, principled, open, above-board: There is no doubt in my mind that Simon can be relied on to do the right thing. 2 correct, fitting, suitable, proper, accurate, exact, precise, perfect; factual, truthful, veracious, valid, sound, Colloq Brit bang on, spot on: Have you bought the right kind of nail to go into plaster? Jennie had nine right answers out of ten. How many of yours are right? 3 propitious, convenient, strategic, advantageous, beneficial, favourable, auspicious, preferred, preferable, promising: It is critical for the mixture to reach the boiling point at exactly the right time. 4 sound, sane, normal, rational, lucid, healthy: Is she right in the head, letting him drive in his condition? 5 right-hand, dextral, dexter, Nautical starboard: In the United Kingdom, drivers sit on the right side. 6 rightist, right-wing, conservative, reactionary, Tory: The right wing of the liberal party is not so very different from the left wing of the conservatives. 7 face, upper, principal, front: Have you laid the tablecloth right side up? 8 utter, complete, perfect, unmitigated, unalloyed, out-and-out, thorough, thoroughgoing, 24-carat or esp. US 24-karat, dyed in the wool, pure, absolute, real, Brit proper: I've been a right idiot not to realize that he loved only her. --n. 9 privilege, prerogative, licence, power, claim, title, freedom, liberty: We must allow nothing to interfere with our democratic rights, such as our right to vote. 10 justice, reason, fact, truth, fairness, equity, good, goodness, integrity, virtue, virtuousness, honesty, honourableness, morality, propriety, rectitude, right-mindedness, high-mindedness, nobility, uprightness: He believes that he has right on his side. 11 right side or hand or fist, Nautical starboard: She stood on his right. She gave him a quick right to the jaw. 12 by rights. properly, fai...
RIGID|0|adj. 1 stiff, unbending, unbendable, firm, hard, strong: Are those brackets rigid enough to support such a heavy shelf? 2 inflexible, inelastic, unyielding, undeviating, unalterable, set, firm, hard, adamant, hard-line, unbending, adamantine, steely, iron, strong, uncompromising, rigorous, unrelenting, intransigent, stringent, severe, strict, rigorous, stern, harsh, austere: Frank is known to favour rigid discipline in the classroom. 3 rigorous, exact, precise, unwavering, unqualified, unswerving, undeviating, demanding, strict, hard and fast, literal, nice, close, thorough, scrupulous, careful, conscientious, painstaking, meticulous, punctilious, exacting, strait-laced: Rigid observance of the regulations produced the desired results. Pinwell's rigid parsimony met little favour from his family. 4 obstinate, stubborn, pigheaded, inflexible, immovable, adamant, adamantine, fixed, set, obdurate, wilful, headstrong, dogged, persevering, determined, resolute, steadfast, resolved, tenacious, relentless, unrelenting, uncompromising, unadaptable, mulish, close-minded: Candida remained rigid in her opposition to birth control.
RINSE|0|v. 1 wash (out or off), wash up, clean, cleanse, bathe, drench, flood, flush, irrigate, Chiefly Brit swill (out), Literary lave: Use plenty of fresh water to rinse all the soap out of the clothes. 2 tint, dye, touch up, highlight: The hairdresser rinsed a little blue into Martine's greying hair. --n. 3 rinsing, wash, washing, bath, bathing, cleaning, cleansing, ablution, drenching, flood, flushing, irrigation, Medicine lavage, Literary laving: The softening agent should be added in the final rinse. 4 tint, dye: I had no idea that she used a rinse - I thought her hair was naturally reddish.
RIPEN|0|v. develop, mature, age, season, maturate, bring or come to maturity; perfect: The peaches need another day to ripen.
RISKY|0|adj. dangerous, perilous, hazardous, chancy, touch-and-go, precarious, Colloq iffy, dicey, dodgy, touchy: Futures trading is a very risky business, as many have discovered to their dismay.
RISQU|0|adj. indelicate, unrefined, indecorous, indecent, improper, broad, naughty, spicy, salty, off colour, racy, bawdy, erotic, suggestive, wicked, blue, ribald, daring, salacious, gross, Colloq Brit near the knuckle: Some of those photographs of beauty contest queens are pretty risqu÷.
RIVAL|0|n. 1 competitor, opponent, contender, challenger, antagonist, adversary; opposition: This year there are many formidable rivals for the championship. --v. 2 compete with or against, contend with or against, oppose, challenge, contest, struggle with or against, vie with, combat, compare with, equal, measure up to, (be a) match (for): Jan's prowess at tossing the caber rivalled that of anyone else in Craigie.
RIVER|0|n. 1 watercourse, branch, tributary, stream, waterway, estuary, rivulet, creek, brook, streamlet, runnel, rill, Scots and No. Eng. burn, Brit beck, US kill: We used to sail our toy boats on the river here when I was a lad. 2 stream, flood, torrent, quantity, cataract, flow, cascade: Rivers of sweat poured down me as I toiled in the humid heat of the jungle.
ROCKY|0|adj. 1 stony, pebbly, shingly, boulder-strewn, craggy; bumpy, difficult, hard, uncomfortable, arduous: The beach at Nice might be romantic, but it's very rocky to lie on. The road to love can be very rocky indeed. 2 stony, adamant, adamantine, firm, unyielding, rocklike, tough, unbending, flinty, firm, solid, steadfast, steady, unfaltering, staunch, unflinching, determined, resolute, unwavering, unchanging, unvarying, invariant, invariable, reliable, dependable, sure, certain: I knew we could depend on Charles's rocky determination to see the project through. 3 stony, flinty, unfeeling, unsympathetic, unemotional, emotionless, impassive, cold, cool, apathetic, indifferent, uncaring, detached, d÷gag÷, callous, thick-skinned, tough, hard: Beneath that rocky exterior beats a tender heart.
ROGUE|0|n. 1 trickster, swindler, cheat, cad, ne'er-do-well, wastrel, good-for-nothing, miscreant, Rather old-fashioned scamp, scoundrel, blackguard, knave, rascal, rapscallion, scapegrace, dastard, cur, churl, wretch, villain, charlatan, mountebank, Brit bounder; Colloq louse, stinker, rat, creep, Brit rotter, blighter, Chiefly US and Canadian son of a gun, Slang bastard, Chiefly US and Canadian son of a bitch, SOB or s.o.b., bum: She met some clever rogue in Capri who conned her out of fifteen thousand lire. --adj. 2 independent, undisciplined, uncontrollable, ungovernable, unmanageable, unpredictable, disobedient, incorrigible, fractious, self-willed, unruly, intractable, unrestrained, wild, lawless, strong-willed, headstrong, refractory, contumacious, recalcitrant, cross-grained, rampageous: Part of the village was destroyed when a rogue elephant ran amok. Perkins quit the company to start up his own rogue concern.
ROUGH|0|adj. 1 uneven, irregular, coarse, jagged, rugged, bumpy, lumpy, broken: The next mile or so we slogged over some very rough terrain. 2 agitated, turbulent, choppy, stormy, storm-tossed, tempestuous, roiled: We negotiated a very rough patch of water before sailing into the calm, sheltered bay. 3 brusque, bluff, curt, short, abrupt, unpleasant, churlish, discourteous, impolite, rough-spoken, ungracious, surly, disrespectful, rude, uncouth, loutish, unrefined, uncivil, uncivilized, uncultured, vulgar, unladylike, ungentlemanly, coarse, ill-mannered, ill-bred, inconsiderate: Ian can be a bit rough, I know, but underneath he is a true and loyal friend. 4 tough, rough-and-tumble, roughneck, rowdy: There are some very rough characters frequenting that pub. 5 harsh, violent, unfeeling, unjust, severe, cruel, tough, hard, brutal, extreme; ungentle: They were subjected to very rough treatment when being questioned by the police. 6 dirty, obscene, smutty, pornographic, vulgar, crude, raw, rude: After midnight they watch the rough shows beamed by satellite from Italy. 7 hard, tough, Spartan, difficult, arduous, laborious, rugged, unpleasant: It was pretty rough going with almost no money and all those expenses. 8 harsh, grating, cacophonous, discordant, jarring, strident, raucous, rasping, unmusical, inharmonious, gruff, husky: In acknowledgement he made a rough, growling noise. 9 unfinished, incomplete, uncompleted, imperfect, rudimentary, crude, rude, formless, unformed, raw, rough-and-ready, rough-hewn, roughcast, undeveloped, unshaped, unworked, unwrought, unprocessed, unrefined; uncut, unpolished; shapeless, unshaped, undressed: I only saw the sculpture in its rough state and cannot say how it looked when finished. The stones are rough, as they were when taken from the ground. 10 general, approximate, inexact, cursory, quick, hasty, sketchy, vague, hazy; foggy, Colloq ballpark: Can't you give me even a rough idea of how much you want for the house? 11 unfair, unjust, bad, ...
ROUND|0|adj. 1 circular; disc-shaped, discoid, disc-like: I prefer a round table to a square one. She made a round motion to demonstrate the shape. 2 ring-shaped, annular, hoop-shaped, hoop-like: The track is oval, not round. 3 spherical, ball-shaped, ball-like, globular, spheroid, spheroidal, globe-shaped, globelike, globate, orb-shaped, orb-like, orbicular: You will never convince me that the earth is round - I know what I see. 4 curved, curvilinear, rounded, arched: The round chisel is used to cut these grooves. 5 exact, precise, complete, entire, full: That makes a round hundred times you have asked me the same question. 6 approximate, rough, rounded (off or up or down), whole: In round numbers, that makes 40 per cent For and 60 per cent Against. 7 rounded, mellow, full, vibrant, reverberant, reverberating, sonorous, rich, mellifluous, orotund, pear-shaped: Couldn't you listen forever to those beautiful round tones sung by Fischer-Dieskau? 8 plain, honest, straightforward, direct, unvarnished, unembellished, unelaborated, outspoken, candid, truthful, frank, open, blunt, Colloq upfront: They delivered what they had to say in round, assertive statements. 9 Chiefly Brit return: We made the round trip to Bristol in less than three hours. --n. 10 circle, disc; ring, hoop, annulus; ball, sphere, globe, orb, bead: The moulding has a repeated pattern of a round alternating with three vertical grooves. 11 cycle, series, sequence, succession, bout, spell: The current round of talks on the economy is expected to last for three days. There was the usual round of parties on New Year's Eve. 12 Often, rounds. beat, route, routine, circuit, course, tour, turn, ambit: The milkman still makes his daily rounds in England. 13 heat, stage, level, turn: After each round in the tournament, the losers are eliminated, reducing the competitors by half. 14 spell, period, run, spate, bout, outburst, burst, volley: Each new acrobat who added to the human pyramid got a round of applause. 15 bullet, ...
ROUSE|0|v. 1 arouse, call, waken, awaken, wake (up), get up, arise: I was roused from a deep slumber by a dog's barking. 2 stir (up), arouse, bestir, stimulate, inspirit, animate, invigorate, electrify, excite, provoke, prompt, goad, prod, galvanize, incite, whet, move, work up, fire up: Bruce's unquenchable enthusiasm roused many to become involved in the campaign.
ROUTE|0|n. 1 way, itinerary, course, direction, path, road, avenue: If you have the time, take the scenic route. John's route to the chairmanship is strewn with his colleagues' corpses. --v. 2 direct, convey, carry: Goods destined for Cleveland will be routed through Northampton.
ROVER|0|n. wanderer, bird of passage, itinerant, traveller, rolling stone, nomad, gypsy, wayfarer, gadabout, sojourner, tourist; drifter, tramp, vagabond, vagrant, US hobo, bum: He's a born rover and will never settle down.
ROWDY|0|adj. 1 boisterous, uproarious, disorderly, noisy, loud, obstreperous, unruly: It only takes a couple of rowdy youths to start trouble at a match. --n. 2 ruffian, tough, hooligan, yahoo, brawler, lout, Brit lager lout, skinhead, Chiefly US and Canadian hoodlum, hood, Slang Brit bovver boy: The police arrested three of the rowdies involved in last night's fight.
ROYAL|0|adj. 1 queenly, kingly, queenlike, kinglike, regal, imperial, sovereign, princely, majestic: The Royal Family usually spend their summer holidays at Balmoral. The establishment proudly boasts royal patronage. 2 grand, splendid, stately, impressive, august, imposing, superior, superb, magnificent, majestic: She arrived at the ball in a royal coach drawn by six white horses. --n. 3 king, queen, prince, princess, duke, earl, duchess, viscount, viscountess, baron, baroness, noble, nobleman, noblewoman, peer: Her greatest ambition is to meet a royal in the flesh. 4 royals. royalty, nobility, nobles, peerage: He writes the daily column reporting on the activities of the royals.
RUNIN|0|n. disagreement, argument, dispute, altercation, quarrel, confrontation, contretemps: We had a run-in with our neighbour about playing his hi-fi too loud.
RURAL|0|adj. 1 country, pastoral, sylvan, bucolic, rustic, Arcadian, exurban; agricultural, agrarian, Literary georgic: They always preferred rural life to life in the city. Constable painted mainly rural scenes. He sells farm equipment, strictly a rural business. 2 See rustic, 2, below.
SADLY|0|adv. 1 unfortunately, alas, unhappily, unluckily, lamentably, regrettably, deplorably, sad to relate: Sadly, all our oldest oaks were uprooted in the hurricane. 2 unhappily, gloomily, morosely, mournfully, despondently, miserably, wretchedly, dejectedly, dismally, sombrely, lugubriously: He told me sadly that he did not expect to return to England again.
SALVE|0|n. 1 balm, ointment, unguent, dressing, cream, lotion, demulcent, embrocation, liniment: The doctor applied a salve to the wound and bandaged it. 2 emollient, balm, palliative, tranquillizer, opiate, anodyne, narcotic, relief, assuagement: The money was more a salve to his conscience than a token of his charity. --v. 3 mitigate, relieve, ease, alleviate, assuage, palliate, soothe, mollify, comfort, appease: There must be something you can do to allow them to save face and to salve their wounded pride.
SAUCE|0|n. 1 gravy, condiment: That sauce on the meat was truly delicious. 2 impertinence, sauciness, impudence, audacity, insolence, brazenness, pertness, disrespect, disrespectfulness, Colloq cheek, cheekiness, lip, back talk, backchat, brass, nerve, gall, Slang crust, US and Canadian sass, sassiness: She had the sauce to tell me to pay at once or get out.
SAYSO|0|n. authority, word, say, order, dictum; authorization: I shouldn't do it just on his say-so if I were you.
SCALE|0|n. Often, scales. balance: We need new bathroom scales: the old one gives too high a reading. n. 1 range, compass, rank, ranking, gradation, graduation, register, spectrum, calibration, progression, hierarchy, scope, gamut: As we ascend in the scale of life we rise in the scale of longevity. 2 proportion, ratio: The scale of these drawings is One Foot = One Centimetre. --v. 3 climb, ascend, mount, clamber up, surmount, go up, escalade: Using grappling hooks and ropes, we scaled the wall in minutes. 4 regulate, adjust, proportion, Chiefly US and Canadian prorate: The size of the cable is scaled to the weight it must carry. 5 scale up or down. increase, enlarge, raise; decrease, reduce, diminish, lower: Depending on the expanse of the faúade, the windows ought to be scaled up or down accordingly.
SCALY|0|adj. 1 rough, imbricated, shingly, Technical lamellar, laminar, lamellate, scutate: The scaly covering of reptiles and fishes is related to the feathers of birds. 2 scabby, scabrous, squamous, squamulose, squamosal, squamose, scurfy, furfuraceous, scruffy: The medication causes the skin to dry and become temporarily scaly.
SCARE|0|v. 1 frighten, alarm, startle, shock, dismay, daunt, appal, give (someone) a shock or a fright, terrify, terrorize, threaten, menace, cow, intimidate, horrify, US and Canadian spook, Colloq scare the pants off, scare the life or the living daylights or the hell out of, scare out of one's wits, make one's hair stand on end, make one's flesh creep or crawl, give one goose bumps or goose-pimples, US scare the bejesus out of, Taboo slang scare or frighten the shit out of, scare shitless, US scare shitty: A sudden noise scared me, and I ran out of the cave as fast as I could. 2 scare up. scrape together or up, find, gather, collect, raise, dig up, get, come by, scrounge (up): I can't scare up that much money in one day! --n. 3 fright, shock, surprise, start: I had a terrible scare when I saw what I thought was blood.
SCARY|0|adj. frightening, eerie, terrifying, frightful, hair-raising, unnerving, blood-curdling, horrifying, spine-chilling, intimidating, daunting; horrendous, horrid, horrible, creepy, crawly, Colloq spooky: Aren't you afraid to watch scary movies on TV when you're home alone?
SCENE|0|n. 1 location, site, place, area, locale, spot, locality, whereabouts, sphere, milieu, backdrop, background: The scenes of my youth are always in my mind. 2 action, episode, part, chapter, section, segment; (stage) setting, mise en scëne; scenery: The next scene takes place in Venice. Is the Venice scene ready? 3 commotion, upset, exhibition, display, row, brouhaha, disturbance, furore or US furor, tantrum, argument, altercation, uncomfortable or disagreeable situation, episode, incident: She made an unpleasant scene in the restaurant when he refused to sit next to her. 4 view, scenery, sight, landscape, seascape, panorama, vista, picture, view, prospect: The scene from the terrace was completely tranquil. 5 behind the scenes. secretly, privately, clandestinely, confidentially, surreptitiously, on the q.t. or Q.T.: Sigrid operated behind the scenes and her identity was never revealed to MI5. 6 make or do the scene. socialize, appear, get around or about, go out, participate: We used to make the scene in the Village back in the forties, but no more.
SCENT|0|n. 1 fragrance, aroma, perfume, redolence, smell, odour, bouquet, whiff, trace: The room was filled with the scent of wild flowers. 2 trail, spoor, track: In drag hunting, the scent is laid down by a sack dragged along the ground. --v. 3 perceive, detect, find out, determine, discern, distinguish, recognize, sense, smell, sniff (out), get wind of, learn or hear about: Scenting possible trouble, he decided he had better take along my revolver. 4 perfume: She had left behind her handkerchief, scented with Chanel No. 19.
SCOLD|0|v. 1 reprimand, chide, reprove, upbraid, criticize, censure, find fault (with), rebuke, reproach, lecture, berate, rate, castigate, take (someone) to task, find fault with, rap (someone's) knuckles, slap (someone's) wrist, Colloq bawl out, dress down, give (someone) hell, give (someone) what for, jump on (someone), jump down (someone's) throat, call (someone) to account, bring (someone) to book, let (someone) have it with both barrels, give (someone) a piece of (one's) mind, give (someone) a tongue-lashing or a talking-to, give (someone) a hard time, rake or haul (someone) over the coals, tell (someone) off, tick (someone) off, skin (someone) alive, call or have (someone) on the carpet, light or rip or tear or lace or sail into (someone), US chew out, jump all over (someone), Brit carpet: When their mother scolded them, they began to cry. --n. 2 nag, shrew, termagant, virago, fishwife, beldam, harridan, hell-cat, fury, amazon, tigress, Xanthippe, Colloq battleaxe: In the old days, they used to take scolds, tie them in a chair at the end of a pole, and dunk them in a pond till they cooled off.
SCOOP|0|n. 1 ladle, dipper, bailer, spoon: Use the scoop to skim the fat off the soup. 2 exclusive: Fergus's story on the minister's illegal business dealings was a real scoop for the paper. 3 (latest) news, (inside) story, revelation, truth, Colloq latest, low-down, info, dope, Brit gen, US poop: What's the scoop on that man seen coming out of her bedroom? --v. 4 Often, scoop up. bail, dip, ladle, spoon: They scooped up some sand and spread it on the ice for traction. 5 scoop out. gouge out, excavate, spoon out, hollow out, dig, cut: Scoop out some melon balls for the fruit salad. 6 scoop up. pick up, gather (up), sweep up or together, take up or in: He scooped up the money and ran out of the bank.
SCOPE|0|n. 1 range, reach, field, area, extent, compass, expanse, breadth, sphere, orbit, span: The scope of her interests includes both the sciences and the arts. 2 leeway, space, room, elbow-room, freedom, opportunity, capacity, stretch, latitude, spread: Have you allowed enough scope for growth?
SCORE|0|n. 1 record, account, reckoning, register, tally, amount, number, count, sum, total; mark, grade: What was your best golf score? Chester got a score of 80 in the French test. 2 nick, groove, scratch, line, mark, stroke, notch, cut, Archery nock: Every time he won, he made a score on his walking-stick. 3 twenty: And the days of our lives shall be three score years and ten. 4 Often, scores. dozens, hundreds, (tens or hundreds of) thousands, millions, number(s), drove(s), horde(s), host(s), multitude(s), herd(s), legion(s), lot(s), mass(es), myriad(s), shoal(s), pack(s), covey(s), bevy or bevies, swarm(s), flock(s), army or armies, crowd(s), throng(s): Passengers by the score angrily protested against the airline's policy of overbooking flights. Scores of animals were fleeing before the forest fire. 5 music, accompaniment, Technical full or short or vocal score: Boito might have written the libretto, but the score was by Verdi. 6 situation, story, news, status (quo), condition, word, Colloq latest, scoop, US poop: What's the score on your applications to medical school? 7 dupe, gull, victim, greenhorn, Colloq fall guy, chump, goat, sitting duck, Slang sucker, patsy, mark, Brit mug: That fellow in the Hawaiian shirt looks a likely score for our little scam. 8 ground(s), basis, account, reason, rationale, provocation, cause: On what score can you justify eliminating him from the competition? 9 settle or pay off or even a score or the score or old scores. get revenge, retaliate, get even, avenge, repay, get an eye for an eye, give tit for tat, give measure for measure, pay (someone) back in his or her own coin, give (someone) a taste or a dose of his or her or their own medicine, Colloq get one's own back: He tried to find out where MacTavish moved had moved to as he had an old score to settle with him. --v. 10 mark, line, incise, scratch, nick, notch, cut, groove, graduate; scrape, deface, mar, gouge, slash: The dipstick is scored at intervals to indicate how much oil is...
SCORN|0|n. 1 contumely, contempt, contemptuousness, disdain, deprecation; rejection, dismissal: He treated their demands with the utmost scorn. 2 mockery, derision, derisiveness, sneering, ridicule, scoffing, jeering, taunting: The crowd's scorn was directed at the politicians who failed to deliver what they had promised. --v. 3 reject, rebuff, disown, disavow, disregard, ignore, shun, snub, flout, contemn, treat with or hold in contempt, have no use for, disdain, spurn, despise, turn up one's nose at, curl one's lip at, look down on or upon, look down one's nose at, thumb one's nose at, Colloq pooh-pooh, put down, Brit cock a snook at: His parents offered to finance his education, but he scorned their help. 4 mock (at), deride, sneer at, ridicule, scoff at, jeer at, taunt, poke fun at, make fun of, laugh at: People scorned him because he said the earth was round.
SCOUR|0|v. 1 scrub, clean, cleanse, wash, rub, abrade, polish, burnish, buff, shine: The pots were scoured until they shone. 2 scrape (about or around), rake, comb, turn upside down, search, ransack: I scoured the shops looking in vain for the coffee filters you wanted.
SCOUT|0|v. 1 Often, scout about or around. reconnoitre, investigate, study, research, examine, explore, spy, search or look (about or around) (for), hunt (about or around) (for), cast around or about (for), Colloq check (about or around): I am going to scout about to find a key that fits. 2 scout up or out. discover, find, locate, uncover, Colloq dig up: I was finally able to scout up a key that fits.
SCRAP|0|n. 1 mite, bit, shred, bite, morsel, piece, fragment, shard or sherd, particle, sliver, snippet, snip, crumb, whit, iota, jot or tittle, snatch, drop, drip, grain, speck, molecule, atom, dab, trace, scintilla, hint, suggestion: There wasn't a scrap of evidence to link him with the crime. 2 scraps. remnants, remains, leftovers, leavings, residue, vestiges, traces, scrapings, discards, rejections, rejects: In the alley, two cats were fighting over some scraps of garbage. 3 waste, debris, rubbish, Colloq junk: Any computer more than five years old isn't even worth its weight as scrap. --v. 4 discard, throw away, reject, abandon, give up, consign to the scrap heap, forsake, forget, get rid of, dispose of, dispense with, Colloq junk, US trash: If I were you, I would buy a new car and scrap this one.
SCRUB|0|v. 1 See scour, 1, above. 2 cancel, call off, abort, scratch, drop, terminate, give up, end, abandon, stop, cease, discontinue, do away with: Something went wrong with the fuel computer, so they scrubbed today's satellite launch.
SEAMY|0|adj. sordid, nasty, dark, disreputable, shameful, unwholesome, unpalatable, unsavoury, distasteful, unseemly, squalid, low, depraved, degenerate, degraded, foul, vile, odious, abhorrent, contemptible, scurvy, rotten, unattractive, ugly, repulsive, repellent: In his later work, he painted the seamy side of life in the slums.
SEEDY|0|adj. 1 shabby, dilapidated, worn (out), decayed, deteriorated, run-down, broken-down, mangy, grubby, decaying, tatty, scruffy, squalid, sleazy, Colloq ratty: They live in a seedy little shack on the other side of town. 2 tired, weary, wearied, run-down, worn out, unwell, out of sorts, ailing, ill, sickly, Colloq poorly, under the weather, off one's feed: I begged off at dinner time because I was feeling a bit seedy.
SEIZE|0|v. 1 Sometimes, seize on. grab, grasp, clutch, take (hold of), grip, snatch: Robin felt that he had to seize every opportunity that presented itself. The dog seized the robber by the seat of the pants. 2 capture, catch, arrest, take into custody, take prisoner, apprehend, round up, Colloq pinch, nab, collar, pick up, Brit nick, Slang bust: The police seized him as he was trying to leave the country. 3 catch, transfix, stop, hold, possess, take possession of, afflict, beset, visit, subject: I was seized by a sudden desire to kiss those quivering, pouting lips. 4 take advantage of, make good use of: When their attention was diverted, I seized the opportunity to escape. 5 confiscate, take (away), commandeer, appropriate, capture, take possession of, impound: Ten tons of cannabis was seized in the raid. 6 seize up, bind, jam, stop, lock (up), stick, freeze (up): Because of the excessive heat, the gears seized and the engine stalled.
SENSE|0|n. 1 faculty: It's not always easy to tell if Brown's senses are all functioning. 2 common sense, intelligence, perception, quick-wittedness, quickness, (mother) wit, judgement, reason, wisdom, sagacity, discrimination, discernment; sanity, Colloq brains, Slang Brit nous: Fancy doing something like that! - she hasn't the sense she was born with! 3 See sensation, 1, above. 4 meaning, intelligibility, coherence, head or tail, drift, gist, import, purport, nuance, significance, message, substance: I was unable to get any sense out of what she was saying. Yes, I wasn't able to make sense out of it either. 5 sentiment, atmosphere, impression, intuition, sensation: I had a sense of being de trop - that I was not wanted. --v. 6 feel, perceive, detect, divine, intuit, have a hunch or feeling, have or get or be under the impression that, suspect, Colloq have a funny feeling that, feel (something) in one's bones, pick up: I sensed a certain antagonism in that last remark. I sensed that he was getting bored with me.
SERVE|0|v. 1 attend (to), wait on or upon, minister to, look after (the needs of), be at (someone's) beck and call, assist, help, be of assistance or help, be in the service of, oblige, accommodate, gratify: After a patron is seated and settled, approach him and ask, 'May I serve you, Sir (or Madam, as the case may be ) ?' We serve all customers with equal consideration. 2 fulfil or carry out or perform or discharge (a function or a duty or one's duty), work (for), do (duty) (as or for), do one's part, suffice, be used or of use or useful (to or for), function (as or to), act (as or to), fill the bill, be serviceable (as or for), be available (for), answer (for), be sufficient or adequate or suitable, suit, be advantageous or of advantage (to); fight (for), be obedient (to), take one's part: This catch will serve to keep the door closed. I had no screw driver, but a coin served just as well. They also serve who only stand and wait. 3 distribute, deal out, dole out, give out, present, set out, provide, supply, offer, pass out or about or around, make available, come (a)round with, dish up or out: They will serve hors-d'oeuvres at seven-thirty. Dinner is served, Madam. 4 be convenient or opportune or favourable (to): If the opportunity serves me, I shall repay you many times over. 5 not fail, not play tricks (on), work or function (for), be accurate or correct: If memory serves, he was last here about ten years ago. 6 go through, complete, spend, last, endure, survive: Henryson served ten years in Dartmoor for that crime.
SETUP|0|n. 1 arrangement, system, organization, layout, regime, structure, make-up, composition, framework, frame, construction; conditions, circumstances: This set-up of interlocking directorships makes it difficult to see who answers to whom and who owns what. What, exactly, is the set-up between you and Eustace? 2 prearrangement, trap, Slang put-up job: As soon as I saw the police car, I knew we had walked into a set-up.
SEVER|0|v. 1 cut off or apart or in two, lop or chop or hew or hack off, slice or shear off, cleave, dock, bob, dissever, split, separate, divide, disjoin, detach, disconnect: The animal's foot was severed by the trap. 2 separate, disunite, dissolve, break off or up, terminate, end, cease, stop, discontinue, suspend, abandon, put an end to: The final divorce decree severed us from one another once and for all.
SHACK|0|n. hut, hovel, shanty, cabin, lean-to, Colloq dump: The shack was built out of scrap lumber and cardboard boxes.
SHADE|0|n. 1 shadow, shadiness, dimness, duskiness, semi-darkness, gloominess, murkiness, dusk, gloom, murk, darkness, obscurity, Literary shades: We rested in the shade of an old oak to get out of the hot sun. 2 tint, tinge, tone, colour, hue, intensity: The curtains should be of a lighter shade to match the wallpaper. 3 hint, intimation, tinge, suggestion, modicum, sprinkling, soupúon, trace, suspicion, undertone, overtone, touch, speck, dash, nuance, atom, grain, scintilla, iota, jot or tittle: Did I detect a shade of sarcasm in your voice, Aloysius? 4 ghost, spectre, apparition, phantom, phantasm, spirit, wraith, vision, banshee, Colloq spook: As night came on, horrifying shades took shape amongst the leafless trees. 5 blind, window-blind, curtain, venetian blind; lampshade; screen, cover, covering, protection, veil, awning, canopy, shield, shelter, umbrella, parasol: We need shades to reduce the glare of the light. We had only a light tent as a shade against the broiling sun. 6 fraction, hair's breadth, bit, hair, Colloq smidgen or smidgin: Try moving the picture a shade to the left. 7 variation, variety, nuance, degree: Do you really think his approval would make a shade of difference to me? 8 put (someone) in or into the shade. overshadow, exceed, surpass, outstrip, outclass, eclipse, outshine, best, better, beat, put to shame, outplay, outperform, outdo, Colloq run rings or circles around, show up: Your record time in the 1000-metre put other contenders in the shade. 9 shades. sun-glasses: Take off those shades so I can see what you are thinking. --v. 10 screen, protect, shield, shelter, cover: You should shade your eyes from the direct sunlight. 11 darken, opaque, black out, blacken: She shaded in parts of the diagram to give a better effect. 12 dim, shadow, veil, blot out, cloud, conceal, hide, obscure, shroud, screen, mask, camouflage, disguise: The house is shaded from view by trees on the south side.
SHADY|0|adj. 1 See shadowy, 1, above. 2 indistinct, indefinite, questionable, doubtful, uncertain, unreliable, suspicious, suspect, dubious, shifty, disreputable; devious, tricky, slippery, underhand(ed), unethical, unscrupulous, dishonourable, dishonest, Colloq fishy, crooked, bent, not (strictly) kosher: The minister's shady past will be revealed in the next issue of Tribune . She got involved with some shady character who had just come out of prison.
SHAKE|0|v. 1 quiver, quake, shudder, waver, wobble, tremble, shiver: The poor child is shaking from the cold. 2 wiggle, wriggle, squirm, shimmy, twitch, joggle, jiggle, waggle, sway, swing, roll, bump, grind, vibrate, oscillate, pulsate, gyrate: When Lola shakes her hips the strongest men have been known to weaken. 3 weaken, undermined, impair, harm, damage, discourage; disenchant, disappoint, disaffect: The incident shook my faith in the political party I had supported all my voting life. 4 wave, brandish, flourish, display, show off, parade, exhibit, vaunt, waggle, flap, flutter: It was thrilling to see the once-banned flag being shaken under the noses of the deposed leaders. 5 Often, shake up. agitate, stir (up), mix (up); upset, distress, frighten, scare, shock, disturb, unnerve, unsettle, disconcert, discomfit, worry, fluster, disquiet, confound, confuse, perplex, puzzle, Colloq rattle, get to, US throw (for a loop): Shake the medicine before taking it. I was really shaken by the news that Sheila had quit. 6 shake down. a break in, condition, test, prove, Colloq debug: We shook down the submarine on a 30-day cruise. b blackmail, extort or extract or squeeze or wrest money from, hold up, squeeze, threaten: The shopkeepers were so frightened that the gang easily shook them down. 7 shake off. get rid of, discard, dislodge, drop, brush off, elude, evade, lose, throw off, rid oneself of, give the slip to: We finally shook off our pursuers: at last we felt safe. --n. 8 shaking, quivering, quaking, shuddering, wavering, wobbling, trembling, shivering, quiver, quake, shudder, waver, wobble, tremble, shiver, wiggle, wriggle, twitch, joggle, jiggle, sway, swing, roll, gyration: The dog gave a shake of its tail and bounded towards them. 9 agitating, agitation, shaking, stirring (up), jolt, jar, jarring, jounce, jolting, jouncing: Give him a good shake and he'll wake up. 10 the shakes. trembling, tremors, delirium tremens, Colloq D.T.'s: She's had so much to drink that she's got t...
SHAME|0|n. 1 embarrassment, humiliation, mortification, chagrin, ignominy, shamefacedness, loss of face, abashment: Watts felt abysmal shame at being discovered stealing from petty cash. 2 disgrace, ignominy, dishonour, disrepute, degradation, opprobrium, vilification, calumniation, infamy, obloquy, odium, contempt, scandal, denigration, loss of face, defamation, discredit, disesteem, disfavour, derogation, disparagement: To think that one knight's single act of cowardice in 1249 could have brought such shame to all his descendants. 3 pity, calamity, disaster, catastrophe; outrage: What a shame that Gerry failed the exam! 4 humility, modesty, (sense of) decency or decorum or propriety, respectability, decorousness, diffidence, shyness, coyness, prudishness, timidity, shamefacedness: The people who wear bathing suits like that obviously have no shame at all. 5 put to shame. a surpass, eclipse, outclass, overshadow, cast into the shade, outdo, outstrip, outshine, show up: Cochrane put his opponents to shame when they failed to score a single point against him. b See 8, below. --v. 6 embarrass, humiliate, mortify, humble, chagrin, disconcert, discountenance, put down, bring down, abash, chasten, Colloq bring (someone) down a peg, suppress, subdue: He hated the teacher because she had shamed him in front of his friends. 7 coerce, force, drive, bully, push; embarrass, humiliate, mortify, humble: The other boys shamed him into admitting that he had done it. 8 disgrace, embarrass, dishonour, scandalize, calumniate, degrade, debase, defame, discredit, stigmatize; smear, blacken, stain, taint, besmirch, tarnish: I am sure, son, that nothing you ever do would shame the family or me.
SHAPE|0|n. 1 form, figure, build, body, physique; lines, profile, silhouette, contours: I've never heard anyone complain about Marilyn Monroe's shape. 2 form, pattern, configuration, structure, aspect: The discussion is on the shape of things to come in the double-glazing trade. The new swimming-pool will be in the shape of a figure of eight. 3 form: Gradually, the shopping mall began to take shape. 4 state, condition, fettle, status, (state of) health, order, trim: When I saw Wayne yesterday, he seemed in very good shape indeed. 5 guise, disguise, form, appearance, likeness, image: Zeus visited Danäe in the shape of a golden shower, and fathered Perseus on her. --v. 6 form, fashion, mould, cast, make, model, sculpture, sculpt; cut, carve, hew, hack, trim: Using primitive tools, they were able to shape the clay into bowls. The topiary shrubs were shaped into the forms of birds. 7 determine, give form to, control, govern, regulate, affect, condition, influence, decree, frame, define,: There are many factors that shape our future. 8 word, express, embody in words, put, formulate, form: Perhaps you could shape your question differently. 9 change, modify, remodel, accommodate, fit, adapt, adjust: The box was shaped especially for this bottle. 10 shape up. a take form, take shape, develop, evolve, proceed: The plan is shaping up very nicely. b conform, improve, progress, go or move or come along, show improvement, come up to snuff; behave better: Those who cannot shape up will have to ship out.
SHARE|0|n. 1 portion, allotment, division, apportionment, allocation, ration, appropriation, dispensation, allowance, part, due, percentage, interest, dividend, quota, portion, helping, serving, Colloq cut: Each of us is entitled to a share in the profits. We made sure that all participants got their shares. 2 interest, piece, part, stake, equity, slice: Do you own any shares in the stock market? My share in United Telephone is worth twice what I paid for it. --v. 3 share out, divide up, allot, apportion, allocate, ration, appropriate, share in, split, partition, parcel or deal or dole out, pay out: Ownership in the company is shared equally among the employees. Let's just take one car, and share the expenses.
SHARP|0|adj. 1 acute, keen; razor-sharp, knife-like, knife-edged, sharpened; pointed, needle-sharp: How do you keep the telescope in sharp focus? You need an extremely sharp knife for boning fish. This pencil isn't sharp enough. 2 abrupt, sudden, precipitous, sheer, vertical, marked: Just round the corner is a sharp dip in the road. There was a sharp rise in prices on the London Stock Exchange today. 3 keen, keen-witted, keen-minded, sharp-witted, shrewd, intelligent, smart, alert, bright, quick, agile, astute, clever, on the qui vive, penetrating, observant: Penny has a very sharp mind and a good eye for detail. 4 caustic, bitter, biting, acrid, hot, spicy, pungent, piquant, tangy, harsh, sour, acid, acidulous, tart: That lemon sorbet is a little too sharp for my taste. 5 acid, acidulous, acerbic, vitriolic, acrimonious, cutting, piquant, biting, bitter, unkind, strict, hurtful, spiteful, virulent, sarcastic, sardonic, trenchant, severe, scathing, malicious, nasty, malignant, venomous, poisonous: How does one escape the sharp comments of the critics? She was unprepared for the sharp exchange between the guests on her chat show. 6 clever, shrewd, artful, crafty, sly, cunning, foxy, calculating, unscrupulous, dishonest, Colloq sneaky, fly: There is evidence that the stock manipulators were engaged in very sharp practice. 7 high-pitched, shrill, penetrating, piercing, strident, harsh, ear-splitting, loud: Jane gave a sharp cry when she felt the ice break under her feet. 8 poignant, severe, cutting, intense, sudden, piercing, extreme, acute, fierce: Complaining of a sharp pain in his chest, he fell down. 9 chic, dapper, spruce, stylish, smart, fashionable, dressy, Colloq snappy, natty, classy, nifty, swell, swanky: If you want to see the latest collection of sharp clothes, go to the disco. --adv. 10 sharply, precisely, exactly, punctually, on the dot, Colloq on the button, US on the nose: Our appointment was for seven o'clock sharp. 11 sharply, suddenly, abruptly: I was pulled...
SHEEN|0|n. shine, gleam, polish, lustre, shininess, burnish, brightness, gloss, glow, glimmer, shimmer, radiance, glint, dazzle: The sheen of the horse's coat glistened in the sunlight.
SHEER|0|adj. 1 steep, precipitous, abrupt, perpendicular, bluff, vertical: There is a sheer drop of 2000 feet to the valley below. 2 absolute, unmitigated, unqualified, downright, out-and-out, unalloyed, unadulterated, pure, unmixed, plain, simple, rank, total, complete, arrant, thorough, thoroughgoing, utter: Johnson said that he had got his definition of 'pastern' wrong out of 'sheer ignorance'. 3 transparent, see-through, thin, diaphanous, filmy, gauzy, gossamer, translucent, peekaboo: Kathryn was wearing the sheer nightgown he had given her for her birthday.
SHEET|0|n. 1 bed-sheet, crib-sheet, fitted sheet, flat sheet, US contour sheet: How often do you change the sheets on your bed? 2 leaf, folio, page: He tore a sheet of paper from the notebook. 3 pane, panel, plate, slab: The desk has a sheet of glass on top for protection. 4 lamina, lamination, layer, stratum, veneer, membrane: Plywood is made up of a number of thin sheets of pressed wood bonded together for strength. 5 area, expanse, stretch, layer, film, coat, coating, covering, blanket, cover, surface, skin, veneer: The sheet of ice on the road made driving hazardous. 6 newspaper, journal, paper, tabloid, gazette, daily, weekly, monthly, Colloq rag: Have you got a copy of the sheet that published the article about you?
SHELL|0|n. 1 cartridge, projectile, shot: We huddled in the foxhole as the shells whistled overhead. 2 exterior, outside, faúade, framework, frame, chassis, externals, skeleton, hull: After the earthquake, only the shell of the building was left standing. --v. 3 shuck, husk, peel, hull, excorticate, decorticate: Would you mind shelling the peas while I peel the potatoes? 4 fire on or upon, bombard, barrage, attack, bomb, blitz, cannonade, Slang Brit prang: The enemy shelled our position relentlessly. 5 shell out. pay out, give out, disburse, spend, expend, hand over, hand out, Colloq lay out, fork out, dish out, Chiefly US ante up: I had to shell out a month's salary for that suit.
SHIFT|0|v. 1 move, change position; edge, budge, relocate, rearrange, transpose, switch: Shift the picture slightly to the left. Marla shifted over closer to me on the bench. I almost broke my leg because you shifted the chair as I was about to sit on it. 2 Usually, shift for (oneself). manage, succeed, make do, look after, take care of, get or scrape by or along, fend for (oneself), make it, paddle one's own canoe: Cyril prefers to live alone and shift for himself. 3 sell, market, move: The object of advertising is to shift merchandise. --n. 4 hours, stint, schedule; workforce, relay, crew, cadre, staff, workers, squad, team, corps, group, party, gang: I prefer to work the morning shift. The night shift comes on at 1600. 5 change, movement, switch, transfer, swerve, deflection, veer: Owing to a wind shift, it became impossible to manoeuvre among the rocks. 6 smock, chemise, muu-muu; caftan or kaftan: A light cotton shift is the most comfortable thing to wear in such scorching weather.
SHINE|0|v. 1 gleam, glow, shimmer, radiate, beam, glare, flare, glisten, glitter, coruscate, twinkle, sparkle, scintillate, glint, flash, flicker: The light of a candle shone from her window. The stars are shining brightly. I want that brass polished till it shines. 2 polish, burnish, rub (up or down), buff, brush, brighten: You'd best shine your shoes before going for the job interview. 3 excel, surpass, stand out, outshine, be outstanding or pre-eminent or excellent or prominent or conspicuous: She had shone at tennis from a very early age, and first entered Wimbledon when she was twelve. --n. 4 gleam, glow, shimmer, sparkle, brightness, radiance, gloss, lustre, sheen, glaze, patina: That shine was achieved with a little wax and elbow-grease. 5 take a shine to. like, be attracted to, take a fancy to, fancy: Her Great Dane has taken a shine to me and likes to sit on my lap.
SHIRK|0|v. avoid, evade, shun, dodge, get out of, shrink from, Colloq duck (out of), Brit skive, Military Brit scrimshank, US gold brick: Stop shirking your responsibilities and get to work! Is Callum shirking again?
SHOCK|0|v. 1 startle, surprise, stagger, jar, jolt, shake (up), stun, numb, paralyse, daze, stupefy, dumbfound or dumfound, bowl over, appal, astonish, astound, frighten, scare, petrify, traumatize, horrify, outrage, disgust, nauseate, repel, revolt, sicken, upset, disquiet, disturb, perturb, discompose, unsettle, Colloq throw, US throw for a loop, flabbergast, give (someone) a turn: He shocked us when he announced his resignation. We were shocked to learn of the train wreck. --n. 2 trauma, stupor, paralysis, prostration, breakdown, collapse, nervous exhaustion: He is in a state of shock after the accident. 3 surprise, thunderbolt, bolt from the blue, bombshell, revelation, shocker, eye-opener, jolt: It came as a shock to learn whom I had been talking to so casually. The death of her husband was a terrible shock. 4 tingle, jolt, impact: You'll get a nasty shock if you touch those wires.
SHOOT|0|v. 1 scoot, dart, whisk, speed, bolt, run, race, rush, flash, fly, dash, hurtle, streak, scuttle, bound, leap, spring, Colloq zip, whiz: The instant the baby cried out, its mother shot over to protect it. 2 discharge, fire, open fire; let fly, launch, propel, project, fling, hurl, throw, toss: Don't shoot till you see the whites of their eyes! With all his strength he shot the arrow into the beast's neck. 3 wound, hurt, harm, injure; kill, slay, assassinate, execute, Slang fill or pump full of lead, plug, blast, zap, knock off, snuff (out): He insulted her, so she shot him. He's to be shot at sunrise. 4 sprout, germinate, burgeon, flourish, grow, spring up, mushroom, develop: Owing to the perfect weather, the corn shot up very quickly. --n. 5 sprout, stem, bud, branch, offshoot, slip, scion, sucker: If you want fruit, the new shoots have to be pinched back.
SHORT|0|adj. 1 small, little, slight, petite, diminutive, wee, tiny, elfin, minuscule; midget, dwarfish, squat, dumpy, runty, stubby, stunted, Colloq pint-sized, knee-high to a grasshopper, sawn-off: Did you know that Queen Victoria was quite short? 2 shortened, brief, concise, compressed, compendious, compact, pocket, US vest-pocket; abbreviated, abridged, cut: A short version of the book was published in paperback. 3 laconic, terse, succinct, pithy, sententious, epigrammatic: He made a few short remarks that were very much to the point. 4 abrupt, curt, terse, sharp, blunt, bluff, brusque, sharp, offhand, gruff, testy, snappish, discourteous, uncivil, impolite: It is unnecessary to be so short with the staff. 5 direct, straight, straightforward, short and sweet: In reply to your request for permission to leave early, the short answer is 'No'. 6 Usually, short of. deficient (in), lacking (in), needful (of), wanting, inadequate, shy (of), low (on): The hotel is short of clean linen because the laundry failed to deliver. 7 brief, limited; transitory, temporary, short-lived, momentary, quick, transient: HQ had a short life but a happy one. I'll just make a short stop in here and will join you in a moment. 8 impecunious, straitened, pinched, underfunded, poor, penniless, deficient: I'm a bit short today and wonder if you could lend me some money? 9 in short supply. rare, scarce, scanty, unplentiful, meagre, sparse, Colloq chiefly Brit thin on the ground: Good editors are in short supply these days. 10 short of. before, failing, excluding, exclusive of, barring, eliminating, precluding, excepting, except for, leaving out, apart from, setting aside: Short of killing him, I am not sure what she could have done in the circumstances. --adv. 11 abruptly, suddenly, peremptorily, without warning, instantly, unexpectedly, hurriedly, hastily, out of the blue: She stopped short in the middle of the road and made me get out. 12 cut short. a trim, curtail, shorten, abbreviate, cut: I must c...
SHOUT|0|v. 1 yell, scream, bellow, bawl, howl, roar, cry (out), call (out), whoop, Colloq holler: We lined up when the sergeant shouted out our names. --n. 2 yell, scream, bellow, howl, yelp, roar, cry, call, whoop, Colloq holler: Nobody on shore could hear the boys' shouts when their boat capsized.
SHOWY|0|adj. flashy, garish, flamboyant, conspicuous, ostentatious, pretentious, bravura, gaudy, US show-off; elaborate, fancy, florid, ornate, fussy, intricate, baroque, rococo, Byzantine, arabesque: Their house is very showy, with gargoyles and lions and unicorns everywhere you look.
SHRED|0|n. 1 scrap, fragment, bit, tatter, sliver, snippet, rag, remnant, chip, piece; atom, trace, whit, grain, jot or tittle, scintilla, trace, hint, suggestion, iota, speck: We found shreds from his shirt caught on the thorn-bushes. There isn't a shred of evidence to suggest that she killed him. --v. 2 fragment, tear (up), tatter, rip (up); destroy, demolish; throw away, dispose of, scrap, US trash: At the news of the break-in, he dashed to his office and shredded the incriminating evidence.
SHREW|0|n. harridan, virago, termagant, vixen, scold, fishwife, nag, fury, spitfire, maenad, harpy, witch, hag, crone, hell-cat, beldam, bitch, banshee, Xanthippe, Thyiad or Thyad, Colloq battleaxe, dragon: His mother is an old shrew who does nothing but complain all the time.
SIDLE|0|v. edge: She sidled towards the door, opened it, and was gone.
SIEGE|0|n. 1 blockade, encirclement, beleaguerment, besiegement: The siege of Troy lasted ten years. --v. 2 lay siege to, besiege, blockade, beleaguer, cordon off, encircle, box or pen or shut in, bottle up: They sieged the city and the inhabitants surrendered when they ran out of food and water.
SIGHT|0|n. 1 eyesight, vision, eyes: His sight was completely restored by the operation. 2 field of view or of vision, range of vision, ken, perception, view, eyeshot, gaze: We turned a corner, and at last the welcoming lights of the pub came into sight. 3 spectacle, scene, show; rarity, marvel, wonder, phenomenon; pageant: I shall never forget the sight of Biffy Harbottle, stark naked, standing on that table in the officers' club. We went to Rome to see the sights. 4 mess, disaster, eyesore, monstrosity, Colloq fright, atrocity: The flat looked a sight after the boys finally moved out. 5 catch sight of. spot, notice, descry, spy, espy, glance at, (catch a) glimpse (of), (get a) look or peep or peek at, Colloq take a gander at, get a look-see at, Slang get a load of, US glom, pipe: We caught sight of a sinister-looking person slipping behind a pillar. 6 out of sight. a remote, distant, far-away, unseeable, imperceptible, invisible: She soon walked out of sight down the road. The mortar emplacement is out of sight, over the hill. b unusual, rare, extraordinary, outrageous, imaginative, awe-inspiring, incredible, shocking, unreal, moving, jolting, Colloq neat, cool, Brit brilliant, brill: The gig last night was out of sight, man. --v. 7 look, view, (take) aim, peer, peek, peep, draw a bead: Sight along this stick and you'll see a cluster of stars called the Pleiades. 8 spot, see, catch sight of, mark, observe, behold, view, distinguish, discern, identify, note, notice, remark, glimpse, descry, espy, spy: A group of bird-watchers have sighted a golden eagle recently in the Grampians.
SILKY|0|adj. silken, silklike, delicate, sleek, soft, smooth, satiny, shiny, glossy, lustrous, Technical sericeous: Her long, silky black hair hung below her shoulders.
SILLY|0|adj. 1 senseless, nonsensical, absurd, ridiculous, ludicrous, laughable, risible, asinine, inane, preposterous, idiotic, childish, puerile, foolish, foolhardy, irresponsible, unreasonable, illogical, irrational, pointless, fatuous, stupid, unwise, imbecilic, crazy, mad, insane: It would be silly to pay for it if you can get it for nothing. 2 stunned, stupefied, daze, giddy, dizzy, muzzy, benumbed: Culley said something rude and the girl knocked him silly with a karate chop. --n. 3 fool, nincompoop, idiot, dunce, ninny, halfwit, simpleton, numskull or numbskull, dim-wit, booby, dolt, jackass, twit, dolt, blockhead, bonehead, nitwit, ignoramus, clod, US thimble-wit, Colloq dope, dummy, knuckle-head, goose, drip, silly billy, Brit clot, Slang US and Canadian jerk, nerd: Warren is such a silly to spend so much money on a girl who cares nothing for him.
SINEW|0|n. 1 ligament, tendon; muscle, thew: After the climb, I ached in every sinew. 2 Usually, sinews. strength, force, power, energy, brawn, vigour, might, stamina, vitality: The sinews of his argument were considerably weakened by her disarming candour.
SINGE|0|v. char, blacken, sear, scorch, burn: Unfortunately, I singed the tail of my shirt while ironing it.
SIREN|0|n. 1 whistle, warble, wailer, horn, foghorn; signal, alarm, warning, alert, tocsin: The air raid siren sounded and everyone ran for shelter. 2 temptress, seductress, enchantress, charmer, sorceress, femme fatale, Circe, Lorelei, Colloq vamp, US mantrap: Have you seen the latest siren to whom John has fallen prey?
SISSY|0|n. milksop, mama's boy, mummy's boy, namby-pamby, weakling, baby, cry-baby, mollycoddle, US milquetoast, Colloq softie or softy, Brit wet: The boy you remember from school as a sissy is now a football star.
SKILL|0|n. 1 talent, ability, aptitude, expertness, expertise, facility, skilfulness, art, artistry, cleverness, adeptness, adroitness, mastery, dexterity, handiness, ingenuity, experience, proficiency, finesse, knack, quickness, deftness, technique: It requires great skill to operate this machine. 2 accomplishment, forte, strength, gift, capability, know-how, faculty: Her skill is in teaching others how to be skilful sales people.
SLACK|0|adj. 1 remiss, careless, indolent, negligent, lax, lazy, idle, neglectful, delinquent, inattentive, otiose, dilatory, cunctatory, laggard, easygoing, slothful, sluggish, lethargic, shiftless, do-nothing, fain÷ant, Colloq asleep at the switch or the wheel, asleep on the job: Production has fallen off because the workers are getting slack. 2 loose, flabby, flaccid, soft, limp, baggy, drooping, droopy, bagging, sagging, floppy: The flag hung down, slack in the still air. --v. 3 Often, slack or slacken off or up. a let go, let run, let loose, release, slacken, loose, loosen, relax, ease (out or off), let up (on): Slack off the stern line a bit. b slow (down or up), delay, reduce speed, tire, decline, decrease, diminish, moderate, abate, weaken: Barnes could not keep up his terrific pace and is beginning to slack off. Business has slackened off since Christmas. 4 neglect, shirk, Colloq Brit skive (off), US goof off, Chiefly military gold-brick, Taboo slang US fuck the dog: Don't let the foreman find you slacking. --n. 5 lull, pause, inactivity, cut-back, lessening, reduction, abatement, drop-off, downturn, diminution, decline, fall-off, decrease, dwindling: How do you compensate for the slack in sales of ski equipment during the summer? 6 room, looseness, slackness, play, give: There's too much slack in that mooring line.
SLAKE|0|v. satisfy, quench, gratify, allay, assuage, ease, relieve: Nothing would slake my thirst better right now than a pint of ice-cold lager.
SLANT|0|n. 1 angle, viewpoint, (point of) view, standpoint, approach, twist, idea, aspect, attitude: The article reflects a new slant on why governments are sometimes out of touch with the electorate. 2 bias, prejudice, partiality, one-sidedness, turn, bent: Carla's reporting has a feminist slant which occasionally distorts the facts. 3 slope, incline, tilt, ramp, gradient, pitch, lean, leaning, deflection, angle, rake, cant, camber: A window sill normally has an outward slant. The road has a slant downwards to the right on right-hand curves. --v. 4 tilt, angle, incline, pitch, cant, slope, bend, lean, list, tip, bevel, shelve: The land slants downwards near the lake. Notice how his writing slants upwards at the ends of the lines. Cut the edges to slant outwards. 5 bend, distort, deviate, twist, warp, colour, weight, bias: The editor slanted the story to put the minister in a favourable light.
SLASH|0|v. 1 cut, gash, hack, score, slit, knife, lacerate; wound; scar: The guide slashed away at the undergrowth with his machete. 2 lash, whip, scourge, flog, beat, horsewhip, flail, flagellate, flay, lambaste, thrash, beat: In those days, a convicted felon was beaten and slashed in front of a crowd in the market-place. 3 cut, reduce, decrease, drop, mark down, trim, lower: Prices were slashed to clear out last season's styles. --n. 4 cut, gash, incision, slit, slice, gouge, rent, rip, score, laceration: There is a slash in each sleeve that reveals the colourful fabric underneath. 5 cut, reduction, decrease, mark-down: The department stores continued their price slashes to the end of January.
SLAVE|0|n. 1 lackey or lacquey, scullion, serf, slave-girl, slaveling, odalisque or odalisk, bondservant, bondslave, bondsman or bondman, bondswoman or bondwoman, bondmaid, vassal, Derogatory chiefly Brit skivvy, Archaic esne, helot, hierodule, Colloq Brit slavey: In ancient times, captured peoples and those of lower social status were kept as slaves. 2 drudge, workhorse, hack, grind, toiler, labourer, Chiefly Brit fag, dogsbody, Colloq US gofer: Susan was a slave to her job for years, only to be sacked without a pension by the new owners. --v. 3 labour, toil, moil, grind, grub, drudge, sweat, burn the midnight oil, lucubrate, work one's fingers to the bone, work like a Trojan or a horse, Brit skivvy: He was slaving over an essay that was due the following morning.
SLEEK|0|adj. 1 smooth, slick, velvety, lustrous, shiny, shining, glossy, silky, silken: The seals' sleek fur glistened in the sunlight. 2 graceful, trim, streamlined: For her birthday Edmund gave her a sleek convertible. 3 suave, unctuous, slimy, fawning, oily, specious, hypocritical, Chiefly Brit smarmy: His explanations sounded plausible enough, but we soon found out what a sleek rogue he really was.
SLEEP|0|v. 1 doze, (take a) nap, catnap, rest, repose, slumber, drowse, drop or nod off, be in the land of Nod, be in the arms of Morpheus, snore, Colloq snooze, saw wood, catch or log a few zees (Z's), take or have a zizz, catch forty winks: I was so tired, I slept for a full ten hours. --n. 2 nap, doze, slumber, rest, siesta, Colloq forty winks, snooze, zizz, beauty sleep: As she grew older, she found she needed less sleep.
SLICE|0|n. 1 slab, piece, rasher, collop, shaving, layer, Cookery scallop, escalope, scaloppine (pl. of scaloppina) or scaloppini (pl.): May I have another slice of ham? 2 portion, piece, part, wedge, share, sliver, helping: He wants to make certain he gets his slice of the pie. 3 spatula; slicer: The Cabots gave us a silver fish slice for a wedding present. --v. 4 cut, carve, divide: They watched their mother slicing bread for sandwiches.
SLICK|0|adj. 1 smooth, sleek, glossy, silky, silken, shiny, shining, glassy, slippery: His slick hair looked as if it had been greased. 2 smooth, urbane, suave, smooth-spoken, glib, smug, plausible; sycophantic, unctuous, Colloq smarmy: Thomas was a slick operator and managed to worm his way into a position of power. 3 smooth, clever, skilful, adroit, dexterous, professional, ingenious, imaginative, inventive, creative, Colloq neat: The performance was slick and well-rehearsed. 4 superficial, shallow, meretricious, specious, glib: They have made a lot of money publishing slick magazines for the yuppy market. --v. 5 Often, slick down. smooth, plaster down, grease, oil: He likes his hair slicked down to look like Valentino's.
SLIDE|0|v. 1 glide, slip; coast, skim, glissade, skate, plane, skid, toboggan, slither: The drawer slid smoothly out on its runners. Terry came sliding down the icy hill, arms and legs flailing. 2 creep, steal, slip, slink, move: My contact slid into the seat beside me and slipped me a note. 3 decline, decrease, drop, fall: Shares slid to an all-time low on this morning's market. 4 let slide. forget, ignore, neglect, gloss or pass over, pay no heed or mind (to): When Mr Bartlett borrowed my lawnmower, I let the matter slide till he began to think of it as his own, and offered to lend it to me! --n. 5 landslide, earth-slip, avalanche, mud-slide: A dozen houses were destroyed in the slides caused by the recent torrential rains.
SLIMY|0|adj. 1 oozy, slippery, mucky, squashy, squishy, viscous, sticky, gluey, mucilaginous, uliginous, glutinous, mucous, clammy, mushy, US squushy or squooshy, Colloq gooey, gunky, US gloppy: He had cleverly buried the bag of diamonds in a mass of slimy waste where no one would want to look. 2 slippery, unctuous, obsequious, sycophantic, toadying, servile, creeping, grovelling, abject, Colloq smarmy: I don't mind his trying to sell me insurance, but why does he have to be so slimy about it?
SLING|0|v. 1 toss, throw, cast, propel, hurl, shy, fling, fire, shoot, pitch, let fly, launch, heave, lob, Colloq chuck: He slung his briefcase onto the desk and flopped into a chair. --n. 2 slingshot, catapult, trebuchet or trebucket: It is said that David slew Goliath with a stone from his sling. 3 support, strap, band; belt: The doctor ordered him to keep his sprained arm in a sling for a few days. The military rifles are supplied with leather slings.
SLINK|0|v. sneak, creep, steal, prowl, skulk: The dog slunk out of the room with its tail between its legs.
SLOPE|0|v. 1 incline, decline, ascend, descend, rise, fall, dip, sink, drop (off), angle, slant, pitch, tilt, tip: The lawn slopes downwards from the house, then upwards towards that grove of trees. --n. 2 incline, decline, ascent, descent, acclivity, declivity, rise, fall, ramp, dip, sink, drop, angle, slant, pitch, tilt, rake, tip, camber, cant, grade, bevel, hill, bank, mount, gradient, US grade, upgrade, downgrade: Sheep can be seen grazing on the grassy slopes.
SLOTH|0|n. idleness, laziness, indolence, slothfulness, inertia, apathy, indifference, accidie, torpor, faineance, pococurantism, torpidity, sluggishness, languor, languidness, lethargy, phlegm, Rare hebetude: The maharajahs lived a life of sloth and luxury at the expense of their poverty-stricken subjects.
SLUMP|0|n. 1 dip, trough, depreciation, decline, downturn, downslide, recession, depression, falling-off, fall-off, fall, drop, plunge, descent, crash, collapse, failure; nosedive, tailspin: A slump in the housing market was one of the early signs of the impending recession. The market went into a slump this morning from which it barely recovered before closing. --v. 2 decline, slip, recede, fall (off), drop, plunge, descend, sink, crash, collapse, dive, plummet, take or go into a nosedive or tailspin: Prices on the stock market slumped following announcement of a rise in interest rates. 3 See slouch, 1, above.
SMART|0|adj. 1 intelligent, clever, bright, brilliant, quick-witted, sharp, acute, astute, capable, adept, apt, quick, ingenious: Emily is one of the smartest children in the class. 2 canny, perspicacious, perceptive, percipient, discerning, knowledgeable, au fait, well-educated, well-read, erudite, learned, well-versed, aware, shrewd, streetwise, Slang hip, tuned in, US savvy: Brendan is smart enough to avoid trouble. 3 elegant, chic, fashionable, stylish, modish, å la mode, well-groomed, trim, neat, dapper, spruce, soign÷(e), Colloq snappy, natty: You must admit that both Della and Paul are smart dressers. 4 pert, pointed, saucy, witty, nimble-witted, poignant, trenchant, effective: I wish he would stop making smart remarks when I am trying to explain something. 5 brisk, vigorous, animated, active, energetic, spirited, lively; quick, alert, jaunty, perky, breezy: The enemy launched a smart counter-attack at dawn. He set off down the road at a smart pace. 6 quick, swift, stiff, smarting, stinging, sharp, severe: The mugger gave him a smart blow on the back of the neck. --v. 7 sting, hurt, pinch, pain, ache, tingle, prickle, burn, throb, stab, pierce: The antiseptic may smart a bit when it is put on the cut. The smoky atmosphere made her eyes smart. --n. 8 injury, harm, pain, pang, twinge, affliction, suffering, smarting: For years he silently endured the smart of his colleagues' ridicule.
SMEAR|0|v. 1 daub, rub, anoint, spread, cover, coat, wipe, plaster, bedaub; besmirch, dirty, smudge, stain, soil, begrime: The baby smeared ice-cream all over his face. The car windows were smeared with dirt from the road. 2 blacken, besmirch, soil, sully, calumniate, slander, discredit, tarnish, defile, vilify, scandalize, stigmatize, Colloq drag through the mud: Politicians regularly smear their opponents with all sorts of accusations. --n. 3 smudge, daub, stain, splodge or chiefly US splotch, blot, taint, spot: These outrageous lies constitute a smear on my good reputation. There was a smear of blood on his collar. 4 slander, scandal, libel, vilification, mud-slinging, defamation, calumny, aspersion, reflection: The article contains several smears on the character of an MP.
SMELL|0|n. 1 odour, scent, aroma, perfume, fragrance, bouquet, breath, whiff: Don't you love the smell of freshly brewed coffee in the morning? 2 stink, stench, fetor or foetor, fetidness, mephitis, effluvium, Colloq Brit pong: The smell from the rotting garbage was overpowering. --v. 3 scent, sniff, Colloq get a whiff of: The moment I smelt that perfume I knew that Nicole had been there. 4 stink, reek, Colloq Brit pong, hum: The milk had gone off and smelled to high heaven.
SMILE|0|v. 1 grin, beam: He smiled and said he was pleased to meet me. --n. 2 grin: Georgina bestowed on me a sweet, wistful smile.
SMIRK|0|n. 1 leer, sneer, grin, grimace, simpering smile: Wipe that conceited smirk off your face. --v. 2 sneer, grimace, leer: Instead of saying, 'I told you so', he just stood there smirking.
SNACK|0|n. 1 bite, nibble, morsel, titbit or chiefly US tidbit, refreshment(s), Brit elevenses, Colloq nosh: Have a little snack or you'll be hungry later. --v. 2 bite, nibble, Colloq nosh: He gained all that weight just from snacking between meals.
SNAKE|0|n. 1 reptile, serpent, ophidian, viper: A specialist in snakes is called a herpetologist. 2 snake in the grass, traitor, turncoat, Judas, quisling, betrayer, double-crosser, informer, rat, US Benedict Arnold, Slang chiefly US and Canadian fink, ratfink: Eventually they caught the snake who was giving away their plans to the enemy. --v. 3 slither, glide, creep, crawl, worm: To avoid being seen, he snaked along on his stomach for a few yards. 4 twist, wind, curve, bend, turn, zigzag, worm, wander, loop, crook, meander: The road snakes through the jungle for 50 miles or more.
SNARE|0|n. 1 trap, net, springe, noose, gin: They had caught only a pigeon in the snare. --v. 2 trap, catch, entrap, seize, capture, ensnare: Using a different bait, William snared some partridges.
SNARL|0|v. 1 growl; snap: I admit I found three snarling Dobermans a bit off-putting. The clerk snarled at me when I asked for a form. --n. 2 growl: With a snarl the dog leapt at his throat.
SNEAK|0|v. 1 lurk, slink, steal, creep, skulk, cower, lurk, pad, prowl, sidle, Colloq pussyfoot: We caught Francis sneaking about the house last night. --n. 2 informer, Colloq tattle-tale, Brit grass, Slang stool-pigeon, snitch, Brit and Australian nark, US stoolie, Chiefly US and Canadian fink, ratfink, US shoo-fly: Frank picked up a little money acting as a sneak for the police.
SNEER|0|v. 1 smirk, curl one's lip, sniff: Don't sneer - you might be the next to lose your job. 2 scorn, disdain, despise, contemn, turn up one's nose (at), sniff (at), jeer (at), laugh (at), deride, mock, ridicule; underrate; Colloq sneeze at, Slang knock: They sneered at her ambition to become a serious athlete. --n. 3 scorn, jeer, disdain, contempt, derision, mockery, ridicule; sneering, jeering: Barry endured his classmates' sneers without a word.
SNIFF|0|n. 1 whiff, breath, odour, scent: I got a sniff of her perfume as she walked by. 2 hint, spirit, feeling, suggestion: There is the sniff of spring in the air. --v. 3 smell, snuffle, snuff: Why is your dog always sniffing at my shoes? 4 sniff (at). See sneer, 2, above.
SNIPE|0|v. Usually, snipe at. shoot at, fire at; attack, criticize, deride, find fault with, carp at, pick apart: Newby has been sniping at the organization for years and we simply ignore him.
SNOOP|0|v. 1 pry, spy, interfere, meddle, intrude, butt in(to), Colloq stick or poke one's nose; be nosy, nose around or about: He couldn't stop snooping into other people's affairs. --n. 2 busybody, Paul Pry, meddler, spy, intruder, snooper, peeper; private detective or investigator; Colloq Nosy Parker, US buttinsky or buttinski; private eye, US shamus: There was a snoop here today, asking a lot of personal questions.
SOBER|0|adj. 1 teetotal, temperate, US dry, Colloq on the (water-) wagon: Because he was driving, he stayed sober at the party while everyone else got drunk. 2 serious, solemn, earnest, dispassionate, unruffled, unflustered, unexcited, unperturbed, steady, sedate, staid, composed, dignified, cool, calm, serene, tranquil, collected, cool-headed, level-headed, sane, balanced, practical, realistic, rational, clear-headed, Slang together: We invited you because we respect your sober judgement. 3 sedate, sombre, plain, simple, subdued, quiet, repressed, dreary, dark, drab, colourless, neutral: At the funeral the widow wore a sober black costume. --v. 4 sober up. detoxify, recover, Colloq dry out: When she finally sobered up she awoke to find herself in custody.
SOLID|0|adj. 1 three-dimensional, cubic: The perspective drawing is a representation of a solid object. 2 filled (in or up), packed, jammed, crowded, teeming, congested, crammed, swarming, compressed, concentrated, Colloq chock-a-block, jam-packed, chock-full: By the time I arrived, the gallery was solid with people. 3 compact, firm, hard, stable; unshakeable or unshakable, unshaky, substantial, concrete, sturdy, sound, stout, strong: The vessel floated through the air before coming to rest on solid ground. His theories rest on a solid foundation. 4 consistent, homogeneous, uniform, unalloyed, unmixed, pure, continuous, unbroken, real, authentic, true, genuine, 24-carat, unadulterated, Slang honest-to-God: This mountain seems to be solid iron all the way through. John gave me a solid gold necklace for my birthday. 5 law-abiding, upstanding, upright, decent, stout, substantial, powerful, reliable, regular, steady, steadfast, stalwart, straight, estimable, sure, trusty, trustworthy, true-blue, worthy, dependable, sober: Mr Hart is one of the solid citizens of this town. He has always been a solid defender of the underdog. 6 steady, stable, stalwart, dependable, sturdy, strong, substantial, sound, firm, well-built, well-constructed, well-made, tough, durable, rugged, stout: That chair is not solid enough for you to stand on. 7 cogent, sound, concrete, weighty, proved, provable, valid, reasonable, sensible, rational, sober, well-founded, authoritative, indisputable, incontrovertible, irrefutable, incontestable, good, powerful, potent, forceful, convincing, persuasive: He presents a solid argument for a sales tax. 8 firm, downright, vigorous, telling, effective, forceful, potent, powerful, mighty, dynamic, thorough, through-and-through, intensive: Jan struck a solid blow against the supporters of abortion. 9 See solvent, 1, below. 10 entire, complete, whole, continuous; uninterrupted, undivided, unbroken, unrelieved, blank, windowless: I had to wait at the dentist's for a solid ...
SOLVE|0|v. work or figure out, unravel, disentangle, untangle, clarify, clear up, make plain or clear, interpret, explicate, decipher, crack, explain, elucidate, reveal, answer, resolve: Oedipus' problems began in earnest when he solved the Riddle of the Sphinx.
SORRY|0|adj. 1 regretful, penitent, remorseful, contrite, conscience-stricken, guilt-ridden, repentant, apologetic, penitential: I am sorry if I offended you. 2 abject, miserable, depressing, wretched, pitiful, pitiable, pathetic, deplorable, stark, grim, sordid, dismal, base, star-crossed, ill-starred: Crackham has led a rather sorry life, most of it as a vagrant. Agnes again made a sorry spectacle of herself at the Christmas party. 3 See sorrowful, 1, above: I was indeed sorry to learn that you are moving away, Peggy.
SOUND|0|n. inlet, strait(s), fiord or fjord, bight, (sea) loch, bay, arm of the sea, cove, Scots firth: The breeze freshened as we sailed across the Sound of Mull.
SPACE|0|n. 1 spaciousness, room, place, expanse, elbow-room, leeway, margin, latitude, play: There was no space for another desk. 2 blank: When the spaces are filled in, the puzzle is done. 3 interval, lapse, period, time, hiatus, lacuna, span, while, duration, extent, spell, stretch, pause, wait, intermission, gap, break, interruption: After a short space we were home again. 4 accommodation, seat, berth, room, place: Luckily, I got the last available space on the plane. --v. 5 arrange, organize, array, set out, align, range, order, rank, lay out, measure (out): Space the trees about eight feet apart.
SPANK|0|v. slap, smack, put or take over one's knee, thrash, paddle; chastise, punish, castigate; Colloq wallop, tan (someone's) hide, paddywhack, whack, give (someone) a (good) licking or hiding: In those days when you misbehaved you were spanked.
SPARE|0|adj. 1 extra, surplus, supernumerary, auxiliary, supplementary, additional; odd, leftover; in reserve, in addition: We got a puncture, so Dad stopped and put on the spare wheel. Give them the spare room. Have you a spare cigarette? 2 unoccupied, leftover, leisure, free, surplus, extra; not spoken for: Her demanding job left her very little spare time. 3 thin, skinny, scrawny, cadaverous, gaunt, raw-boned, meagre, gangling, lank(y), wiry, slim, slender; all skin and bones: The spare, ragged figure crouched in the shadows, his hand outstretched in supplication. 4 See sparing, below. 5 meagre, frugal, small, skimpy, modest, scanty: Their meals were spare but wholesome. --v. 6 save, rescue, deliver, redeem: Bill spared me from a fate worse than death. Spare me the embarrassment of having to ask for my money back. 7 pardon, let go, release, have mercy on, let off, free, liberate: At the last moment, the judge spared him. 8 allow, relinquish, let go (of), give, award, bestow, let have, donate, part with, give, yield: She decided she could spare a couple of pounds for the disaster appeal. Buddy, can you spare a dime? 9 avoid, dispense with, manage or do without, give up, forgo, forsake, surrender, sacrifice: We spared a great deal of trouble by settling the dispute. Spare the rod and spoil the child.
SPASM|0|n. 1 convulsion, throe, fit, twitch, paroxysm: Deprived of his medication, Brian might go into spasms. 2 fit, seizure, convulsion, paroxysm, spell, outburst, burst, eruption: After that, every time he said 'furniture', the crowd went into spasms of laughter.
SPATE|0|n. flood, inundation, onrush, onset, rush, deluge, outpouring, outflow, outflowing, flow: What did I say to provoke that spate of foul language?
SPEAK|0|v. 1 talk, converse, discourse: We were not allowed to speak during lessons. 2 talk to, converse or discourse with, address, say (something or) anything to: She was speaking quietly to the children. That is no way to speak to your elders. 3 talk, communicate in, discourse or converse in, communicate in, utter in, articulate in, use: Can you really speak Chinese? 4 express, utter, say, state, tell, pronounce, enunciate, voice; articulate, make known, communicate, reveal, indicate: He is speaking the truth. 5 symbolize, betoken, signify, communicate, convey, indicate: Her refusal to return your love-letters speaks volumes. 6 so to speak. as it were, in a manner of speaking, figuratively or metaphorically (speaking): When it comes to employee benefits, the boss is Scrooge himself, so to speak. 7 speak for. a support, uphold, defend, stand up for, plead for, make a plea for, recommend, Colloq stick up for: Be quiet and let Simon speak for himself. b act on or in behalf of, act for, represent, act as agent for: He is speaking for the whole staff when he expresses worries about the cuts. c demand, require, beg, request, ask for: The situation speaks urgently for an effective drug rehabilitation programme. 8 speak for itself. be self-evident, be obvious, be significant: The fact that both your son and the ring are missing speaks for itself. 9 speak of. mention, advert to, allude to, refer to, make reference to, comment on, speak or talk about: I begged you not to speak of her again in my presence. 10 speak on. discuss, address, discourse upon or on, speak to, treat (of), deal with, examine, touch upon or on: In his presentation Dr Andrews spoke on the role of natural predators in pest control. 11 speak out or up. a talk (more) loudly or clearly, make oneself heard: I cannot hear you unless you speak up a bit. b talk freely or unreservedly, express one's opinion, speak one's mind, declare, come out, state one's position, take a stand: I heard a mother of ten speak out again...
SPECK|0|n. spot, dot, fleck, mote, speckle, mark, bit, particle; crumb, iota, jot (or tittle), whit, atom, molecule, touch, hint, suggestion, suspicion, tinge, modicum, amount, grain, smidgen or smidgin: There's a speck of soot on your collar. Is there a speck of truth in what she says about you?
SPEED|0|n. 1 rapidity, fleetness, quickness, speediness, swiftness, velocity, dispatch or despatch, hurry, hurriedness, haste, hastiness, celerity, alacrity, expeditiousness, expedition, briskness, promptness, timeliness; suddenness, precipitateness, precipitousness, abruptness: We reached a speed of Mach 2. What is the speed of your new computer? The speed of her reactions will be recorded during the experiment. --v. 2 Often, speed up. accelerate, move, expedite, forward, advance, facilitate, boost, further, promote, help, assist, aid, Colloq give a leg up: He vowed to do anything he could to speed the troops' return from the battlefield. 3 hasten, make haste, hurry, rush, charge, dart, bolt, shoot, run, race, sprint, fly, streak, scurry, tear, hustle, scramble, scamper, career, bowl along, go or fly like the wind, Colloq go hell for leather, go like a bat out of hell, belt along, step on it, put one's foot down, zip, zoom, skedaddle, go like a shot, US hightail it, step on the gas, go like greased lightning, make tracks, Slang US burn rubber: Where the road is straight, cars speed along at up to 120 miles per hour.
SPELL|0|n. 1 period, interval, time, term, season; stint, turn, run, course, shift, tour (of duty), watch, round: We had a spell of bad weather. Each of us had a spell at the tiller during the crossing. --v. 2 relieve, replace, substitute for, take over for or from: After 36 hours of uninterrupted duty, I needed someone to spell me for a while. v. 1 augur, portend, presage, promise, hold promise of, signify, point to, indicate, omen, bode, look like, amount to, mean: Harry's conviction will spell the end of his career as a bank robber. 2 spell out. specify, delineate, make clear or plain or explicit, clarify, elucidate: She despises you - I can't spell it out for you more plainly than that.
SPEND|0|v. 1 pay out, disburse, expend, lay out, Colloq fork out, dish out, shell out, Brit splash out: That man spends more for a suit than you earn in a year. 2 squander, throw away, fritter away, waste, go through, splurge, lavish, dissipate: He spends money as if it's going out of style. 3 devote, allot, assign, invest, put in, pass: If you don't spend more time with the children they'll forget they have a father.
SPENT|0|adj. 1 drained, exhausted, prostrate, tired, fatigued, fagged out, weary, wearied, worn out, Colloq (dead) beat, done in, done for, all in, dog-tired, played out, burnt- or burned-out, used up, Brit knackered, done up, US pooped: He was totally spent after sitting in the airport all night during the storm. 2 exhausted, used up, emptied, gone, expended, finished, fini, consumed, depleted: At 70, he was wrong to feel that his life was spent.
SPICE|0|n. 1 condiment, relish, seasoning, flavour(ing); herb: Much of the purpose of early explorers was to search for spices. 2 zest, spiciness, piquancy, tang, pungency, bite, sharpness, poignancy, gusto, excitement, seasoning, dash, ÷lan, colour, life, vigour, interest, stimulation, stimulant, spirit, Colloq vim, zip, pep, kick, pizazz, punch, ginger, pepper: A holiday in the Bahamas will add a little spice to our lives. --v. 3 season, flavour: Highly spiced food does not agree with many people. 4 Often, spice up. enliven, inspirit, stimulate, invigorate: The proprietor felt that the new editor should try to spice up the magazine.
SPICY|0|adj. 1 zesty, zestful, piquant, tangy, (well-)spiced, (well-)seasoned, hot, peppery, sharp, pungent, snappy, biting, full-bodied, aromatic, savoury, flavoursome, flavourful: This curry is a little too spicy for my taste. 2 off colour, indelicate, suggestive, risqu÷, improper, indecent, indecorous, ribald, racy, bawdy, unseemly, offensive, titillating, sexy, Colloq hot: This magazine often publishes spicy nude photos. 3 scandalous, sensational, outrageous, notorious, revealing, revelatory, intimate: She likes to read about the spicy goings-on in Hollywood.
SPIKE|0|n. 1 skewer, stake, prong, treenail, nail, peg, picket, pin, pike, spine: To subdue a vampire, drive a wooden spike through its heart. --v. 2 impale, stab, stick, spear, pierce, spit, lance: He was spiked through the thigh by a bayonet. 3 disable, thwart, nullify, disarm, block, frustrate, foil, void, balk, check, cancel, annul: Our plans for the picnic were spiked by the weather. 4 strengthen; drug, poison, Slang slip in a Mickey (Finn): I passed out because my drink was spiked.
SPINE|0|n. 1 backbone, spinal column, vertebrae: He can't stand up straight - he has curvature of the spine. 2 thorn, needle, barb, spike, spur, prong, quill, ray, barbel, bristle, prickle, Technical barbule, spicule or spiculum or spicula: The surface of the sea urchin is covered with needle-like spines.
SPIRE|0|n. 1 column, tower, belfry; steeple, flëche: The spire of the church was repeatedly struck by lightning that night. 2 top, pinnacle, apex, peak, summit, acme, tip, crest, crown, vertex: We climbed till we stood on the highest spire above the valley.
SPITE|0|n. 1 spitefulness, maliciousness, malice, malevolence, malignity, ill will, venom, spleen, rancour, animosity, gall (and wormwood), resentment, bitterness, hostility, antagonism, hatred, hate, Colloq bitchiness: Just out of spite, Marian saw to it that he didn't get the job. 2 in spite of. despite, notwithstanding, regardless of, ignoring, in defiance of: In spite of his efforts to be helpful, she despises him. --v. 3 annoy, irritate, vex, upset, disconcert, offend, provoke, discomfit, pique, put out, hurt, injure, wound, Colloq peeve, get under (someone's) skin, needle, US do a number on: He would cut off his nose to spite his face. He told her he was happy only to spite her for having divorced him.
SPLIT|0|v. 1 Often, split up or apart. divide, separate, cleave, cut or chop apart, cut or chop in two, pull or tear apart, rend, break or snap apart or in two, break up, come apart, rupture, partition, detach, become detached; bisect, dichotomize: He split the log with one blow of his axe. The ship split apart on the reef. The party may split on the tax issue. 2 Often, split up. divorce, separate, go separate ways, break up, part company: After 30 years, the Hitchcocks have decided to split up. 3 Often, split up. branch, fork, diverge, separate: The road splits to pass round the pond. 4 Often, split up. divide (up), apportion, deal out, dole out, distribute, allot, share or parcel out, carve up: Why don't we split the dinner bill five ways? 5 burst, crack or break up, fall apart or about, Slang bust: I laughed so much I thought I'd split! 6 leave, depart, go, Slang take a (run-out) powder, take it on the lam, beat it, scram, skedaddle: When they heard the sirens of the police cars, they split. --n. 7 crack, cleft, fissure, chink, cranny, slit, slot, crevice, groove, furrow, channel, sulcus; gap, hiatus, lacuna, opening, separation, division, chasm; rift, break, rupture, fracture; slash, gash, tear, rip, rent: The edges of the tectonic plates mark splits in the earth's crust. Pressure caused the splits in these plaster columns. I had to borrow a tablecloth to cover up the split in my trousers. 8 division, dichotomy, schism, breach, rupture, partition, disunion, discord; break, separation: Don't you think that the issue will cause a split within the party? --adj. 9 divided, separated; halved, bisected, cleft; cut, broken, fractured: The result was a split vote along party lines. Their first containers were of split bamboo.
SPOIL|0|v. 1 ruin, destroy, wreck, queer, mess up, upset, demolish, harm, damage, Colloq kill: You really spoiled everything by telling Mum about my pet frog. Spare the rod and spoil the child. 2 damage, mar, injure, harm, deface, disfigure, scar, blemish: The painting was spoiled by some fanatic who slashed it. 3 baby, mollycoddle, coddle, indulge, pamper, dote on, spoonfeed, Rare cocker: Barbara really spoils her family terribly by indulging their every whim. 4 turn, go off or bad, curdle, moulder, decay, decompose, become addle(d), rot, putrefy, mildew: The milk will spoil if not refrigerated. 5 be spoiling for. itch (for or after), yearn (for), be eager (for), be keen (for), look for, be bent on, be desirous of, crave, be after: If you give Tom a drink he'll be spoiling for a fight. Oh, I thought he was always spoiling for a fight. --n. 6 spoils. loot, booty, plunder, pillage, prizes, pickings, Slang swag, take, goods, boodle: The Nazis took the paintings as spoils of war.
SPORT|0|n. 1 recreation, diversion, pastime, amusement, entertainment, play, distraction, relaxation, divertissement, pleasure, enjoyment, fun: I fish for sport, not to earn a living. 2 jest, humour, fun, mockery: They often call him rude names, but only in sport. 3 make sport of. tease, deride, make a laughing-stock (of), (hold up to) ridicule, make a fool of: She doesn't like it when you make sport of her husband. --v. 4 frolic, gambol, cavort, romp, caper, play, frisk, lark, rollick, skip about: These octogenarians are sporting about like young foals. 5 show off, exhibit, flaunt, display, wear: Keith arrived, sporting the latest in Italian footwear.
SPRAY|0|v. 1 sprinkle, spatter, scatter, shower, disperse, diffuse, atomize, spread: Try to spray the insecticide evenly over the plants. --n. 2 shower, sprinkling, drizzle, mist, sprinkle, spindrift or spoondrift: The strong wind carried the spray from the whitecaps right up into the streets of the town. 3 atomizer, sprayer, sprinkler, vaporizer, aerosol: Richard bought me a cologne spray for Mother's Day.
SPREE|0|n. frolic, romp, lark, outing, escapade, revel, wild party, fling, debauch, orgy, bacchanalia; drinking-bout, carousal, Colloq bender, binge, jag: Bruce has gone off on another of his sprees.
SPURN|0|v. reject, disdain, scorn, contemn, despise, rebuff, repudiate, refuse, sneer at, snub, brush off, turn down, turn one's back on or upon, look down on or upon, Colloq cold-shoulder, turn one's nose up at, sneeze at: Judith spurned her father's offer of a loan.
SPURT|0|n. 1 burst, access, effort, outbreak, spell, interval, spate, moment, instant: With a sudden spurt of speed he caught up with me. 2 increase, advance, acceleration, rise, improvement: After a brief spurt in business in January, everything stopped. --v. 3 gush, spew, squirt, jet, shoot, erupt, burst, surge: The minute the plumber left, water began spurting out of the drain again.
STAGE|0|n. 1 position, situation, grade, level, stratum, tier, echelon, step, station, place, point, spot, juncture, division, phase, lap; status, condition: We have to reach the third stage before going on to the fourth. 2 platform, dais, podium; rostrum: After the performance, the audience threw flowers onto the stage. 3 the stage. show business, the theatre, the boards, the footlights, Broadway, Chiefly Brit the West End; acting, Thespianism; Colloq showbiz: That first burst of applause decided her to make the stage her career. --v. 4 put on, produce, present, mount, exhibit: If we can't get the theatre, why don't we stage the show in Mr Kimble's barn? 5 put on, contrive, organize, originate, devise, make up, concoct, fake, trump up, stage-manage, manipulate, manoeuvre: It seems that the enthusiastic reception given his wife had been staged solely for his benefit.
STAID|0|adj. sedate, rigid, stiff, prim, dignified, sober, calm, composed, quiet, restrained, solemn, serious, serious-minded, grave, sober-sided: One expects a judge to be rather staid in his behaviour.
STAIN|0|n. 1 blot, mark, spot, discoloration, blotch, smutch, smirch, speck, Brit splodge or US also splotch: There's a stain on your tie. 2 mark, blot (on the escutcheon), stigma, blemish, Brit blot on one's copybook, Colloq US black eye: His cowardice in battle was a permanent stain on his reputation. 3 dye, colour, colouring, tint, tinge, pigment: An indigo stain was used to bring up certain features in microscopy. --v. 4 blot, mark, spot, discolour, blotch, speckle, dye, spatter, splatter, tinge, smudge, smutch, splash: The tablecloth was stained red from the spilt wine. 5 spoil, defile, ruin, smirch, besmirch, taint, tarnish, stigmatize, shame, disgrace, sully, contaminate, soil, corrupt: Her reign was stained with the blood of the thousands she had tortured and executed.
STAKE|0|n. 1 stick, post, spike, picket, paling, pale, pole, pike, stave; palisade, pole, upright, pillar, column: They tied the goat to a stake and hid, waiting for the tiger to catch the scent. 2 pull up stakes. move (house), resettle, move on, migrate, emigrate, leave, depart: It was time to pull up stakes and find a new camp-site. --v. 3 tether, tie (up), secure, fasten, picket, lash, leash, hitch, chain: The ponies were staked out in the pasture. 4 Usually, stake out. (a fence (in or off), confine, pen, enclose, close in or off, hem in, shut in, impound, enclose, cage, wall in: We hired a man to stake out a large enough area to keep the horses. b mark off or out, define, delimit, outline, demarcate, delineate, circumscribe: The pioneers had already staked out the land they planned to cultivate.
STALE|0|adj. 1 old, past its prime, unfresh, dry, dried-out, hardened, limp, wilted, withered, flat, sour, turned, (gone) off, mouldy, musty, spoiled, rotten: All the food is stale because you failed to wrap it carefully. 2 old, banal, overused, antiquated, old-fashioned, threadbare, trite, clich÷d, unoriginal, hackneyed, stereotyped, tired, weary, boring, tiresome, warmed-over, shop-worn, familiar, stock, well-known, Colloq hand-me-down, Brit reach-me-down: These comedians come up with the same old stale jokes year after year.
STAMP|0|v. 1 trample, bring down one's foot; tread, step, tramp; Colloq stomp (on): He flew into a rage and stamped on the floor, like a petulant child. 2 impress, mark, imprint, print, record, document, register, log; engrave, emboss, inscribe; sign, initial: That last night in Rio is stamped forever in my memory. Their passports were stamped at the frontier. 3 brand, label, mark, tag, term, name, style, identify, categorize, classify, characterize, designate, denominate, show to be: The episode on Friday stamped him as someone not to be trifled with. 4 stamp out. eliminate, eradicate, abolish, get rid of, annihilate, exterminate, kill, snuff out, terminate, end, put an end to, destroy, put down, put out, extinguish, extirpate; quell, subdue, suppress, squelch, repress: Something must be done to stamp out the drug traffic. --n. 5 mark, sign, hallmark, earmarks, traits, features, characteristics: Her work bears the stamp of genius. 6 die, block, punch, seal, matrix, plate, die-stamp, stereotype, mould; signet(-ring): The stamps for the binding are not quite ready. 7 seal, (trade or service) mark, brand, logo, logotype, symbol, representation, colophon, imprint, emblem, insigne (singular of insignia), label, monogram, sign, crest, coat of arms, escutcheon, cartouche, signature, initials: As it bears his stamp, it must belong to him. 8 character, kind, sort, make, fashion, type, cast, mould, grade, style, cut, genre, class, level, kidney, feather, stripe, classification, species, genus, variety, description: Men of Randolph's stamp are hard to find amongst gentlemen and scholars alike.
STAND|0|v. 1 rise, arise, get up, Brit be upstanding: We all stood when the master of ceremonies proposed a toast to McArthur. 2 Sometimes, stand up. a set, place (upright), position, put, move; up-end: Please stand the cabinet in the corner. b stay, remain (standing): Just for that you can go and stand in the corner! 3 endure, survive, tolerate, brook, countenance, face, confront, last through, abide, allow, accept, take, suffer, bear, withstand, undergo, experience, cope with, brave, stand or bear up under, stand for, withstand, stomach, weather, handle, Colloq put up with: I could not stand another year in the tropics. She can stand neither hypocrites nor vanilla ice-cream. 4 continue, remain, persist, be or remain in effect or in force, prevail, obtain, apply, exist: The law will stand as it is till it is rescinded or modified by the court. 5 stand by. a support, defend, back, stand or stick up for, stand behind, be or remain loyal or faithful to, uphold, take the side of, side with, sympathize with, US go to bat for: No matter what he did, she always stood by him. b wait (in the wings), stand or wait or stay or remain on the sidelines, be or stand ready or available or accessible, be or stand in readiness: Would you mind standing by in case we need your help? c stick to, adhere to, support, maintain, persist in, affirm, reaffirm, confirm, abide by: We shall stand by every word of the agreement. 6 stand down. resign, quit, step aside, withdraw: When it was revealed that she was taking steroids, she agreed to stand down from the team. 7 stand for. a symbolize, betoken, represent, signify, mean, be emblematic of, exemplify, epitomize, illustrate, typify, refer to, allude to: The initials in P. G. Wodehouse's name stand for 'Pelham Grenville'. b support, advocate, favour, sponsor, promote, espouse (the cause of), subscribe to, back, champion, lend support or one's name to, second: Norma has always stood for the principles of democratic freedom. c campaign for, be or presen...
STARE|0|v. 1 gaze, gape, goggle, gawk, watch, Colloq rubberneck, Slang Brit gawp: The people were powerless to do anything but stare as the molten lava engulfed the city. --n. 2 fixed or blank look; goggle, gaze: The teacher fixed her with a stare and she blushed with guilt.
START|0|v. 1 Often, start off or up. begin, commence, get (something) going, get off the ground, originate, initiate, open, set in motion, activate, embark on; set in motion, turn or switch on, crank up, Colloq kick off: They started operations at once. I can't start my car. 2 Often, start off or up or in. arise, come up, come to be or into being, emerge, crop up, develop, begin, commence, get under way, originate: How did this situation start? 3 Often, start off or up or in. go, leave, depart, get going, move (off or out or on), get under way, set off or out or forth, Colloq hit the road, get the show on the road: You start and I'll follow shortly. 4 Often, start in. begin, commence, get or start the ball rolling, get things under way, be on one's way, get going: When I went in I found that she had started without me. 5 jump, flinch, blench, quail, shy, recoil, wince, shrink, draw back: He started when he saw her suddenly behind him in the mirror. 6 cause to spring or leap or dart or jump or bound: Any abrupt movement will start the plovers from cover. 7 establish, found, begin, set up, initiate, institute, create, father, give birth to, beget: It was her ideas that started the current trend in mystery novels. 8 bulge, protrude, stick out; Colloq US bug out: Warping caused these boards to start from the floor. When he saw what was in his swimming-pool, his eyes started from their sockets. --n. 9 beginning, opening, move: This is not very good, but it's a start. 10 beginning, commencement, opening, outset, onset, inception, start-up: The start of the race is set for ten o'clock. 11 beginning(s), inception, birth, initiation, onset, rise, genesis, creation, emergence, origin: The start of the blues can be traced to New Orleans. 12 opportunity, chance, beginning; help, assistance, aid, backing, financing, sponsorship, encouragement, Colloq break: Her father-in-law gave her the start she needed in business. 13 head start, advantage, edge, lead, Colloq (the) jump, US and New Ze...
STATE|0|n. 1 condition(s), circumstance(s), situation, state of affairs, status, shape, position: He was concerned about the state of the company's finances. 2 structure, form, constitution, shape, phase, stage: One does not see iodine in its gaseous state outside the laboratory. 3 grandeur, pomp, style, splendour, magnificence, glory, brilliance: The prince was met at the airport and escorted in state to the palace. 4 nation, country, land, body politic: No longer a colony, it became an independent state in 1952. --adj. 5 governmental, government, national, federal: The State schools in the town had a good reputation. 6 ceremonial, formal, dignified, stately, solemn, official; royal, regal, imperial, majestic: We attended a state dinner at the White House. The Queen travelled in the state coach from Buckingham Palace to Westminster. --v. 7 aver, assert, asseverate, declare, affirm, express, report, articulate, voice, specify, delineate, claim, maintain, allege, submit, confirm; say, testify, hold, have: He has often stated his firm belief in democracy. He stated firmly that he was not in the house on the night of the murder.
STEAL|0|v. 1 take (away), appropriate, filch, shoplift, pilfer, purloin, make or walk off or away with, get away with; embezzle, misappropriate, peculate; Colloq lift, pinch, hook, snitch, borrow, US boost, liberate, heist, hijack, Slang swipe, Brit nick, prig, US hoist: The thieves stole only the emeralds, leaving the diamonds. The bookkeeper stole the money by diverting it into his own account. 2 plagiarize, pirate, copy, imitate, appropriate, usurp, take: He claims that the story of the film was stolen from his short story. 3 sneak, creep, slip, tiptoe, prowl, lurk, skulk, Colloq pussyfoot: Silently, we stole into the garden at the rear of the house. --n. 4 bargain, (good) buy, Colloq give-away: At that price, the rug was a steal!
STEEL|0|n. 1 sword, dagger, blade, knife, dirk, stiletto: He saw the flash of the cold steel in the moonlight. --v. 2 brace, nerve, stiffen, fortify, grit one's teeth, bear up, bite the bullet, screw up one's courage (to the sticking point); inure, insulate, protect: People must learn to steel themselves against criticism in this business.
STEEP|0|adj. 1 sheer, abrupt, precipitous, bluff, sharp, nearly vertical or perpendicular or upright: In those days, a car had to be in first gear to climb such a steep hill. 2 expensive, dear, high, overpriced, exorbitant, excessive, extravagant, extortionate, Colloq stiff: The house prices in the city centre were much too steep for all but the highest-paid executives.
STEER|0|v. 1 guide, pilot, conduct, direct; manage, control, channel: Steer the boat closer to the pier. David has steered the company to greater profits than ever before. 2 steer clear of. avoid, dodge, keep away from, shun, circumvent, give (something or someone) a wide berth: You'd best steer clear of Melissa when she's angry. --n. 3 Usually, bum steer. (bad or poor) tip or suggestion or hint; (bad or poor) guidance or advice or information: He avoids me because I once gave him a bum steer on a horse.
STERN|0|adj. 1 austere, severe, strict, stringent, demanding, critical, rigid, rigorous, flinty, steely, authoritarian, uncompromising, hard, tough, inflexible, firm, immovable, unmoved, unrelenting, unremitting, steadfast, resolute, determined, unyielding, adamant, adamantine, obdurate, hard-hearted, stony, stony-hearted, unsparing, unforgiving, unsympathetic, harsh: Discipline in the French Foreign Legion is said to be quite stern. 2 serious, frowning, grim, forbidding, grave, gloomy, dour, sombre, saturnine, lugubrious, gruff, taciturn, crabby, crabbed, crusty, churlish, sour: Beneath that terribly stern exterior he really is a pussy-cat.
STICK|0|v. 1 pierce, thrust, stab, transfix, pin, spike, impale, spear, spit, run through, poke, gore, jab, prick, puncture, punch, penetrate, drill, bore, riddle, perforate: He stuck the wild boar with his spear. 2 put, drop, place, deposit, Colloq shove, plonk, plunk, plop: Stick another ice cube in my drink, would you? 3 put, poke, push, thrust, prod, dig; insert: She stuck her head out of the window to get a better look. Stop sticking your finger in my ribs! 4 attach, fasten, affix, fix, nail, pin, tack; glue, cement, paste, gum, weld, solder, bind, tie, tape, wire; bond, melt, fuse, unite, join: What shall we used to stick the poster to the wall? How can I stick the pieces of the vase together again? 5 Often, stick together. cohere, adhere, stay or remain or cleave or cling together: I cannot make these parts stick together. 6 hold, last, endure, go through, be upheld, be or remain effective, remain attached: The prosecutor was unable to make a charge of murder stick. 7 linger, dwell, remain (fixed), continue, stay; be or become lodged or stopped or fixed or fast or immovable or stationary, be or become entangled or enmired or bogged down: Something sticks in my mind about your leaving next week. We were stuck in the Sunday traffic for hours. The wheel is stuck in the sand. 8 burden, weigh down, encumber, saddle with, charge, impose on, force on: We stuck Tony with the nasty job of changing the tyre. 9 baffle, puzzle, bewilder, perplex, confuse, stump, stop, nonplus: I was totally stuck for a solution. 10 stand, abide, tolerate, endure, bear: I can't stick people watching me while I am painting. 11 stick around or about. wait, tarry, linger, stay, stand by, remain, Colloq hang around or about or on: Can you stick around for a few minutes after the meeting? 12 stick at. stop at, hesitate at, pause at, scruple at, be deterred or put off by, take exception to, shrink from or at, balk at: Barnes sticks at nothing to get his way. 13 stick by. support, be loyal or faithful t...
STIFF|0|adj. 1 firm, rigid, inelastic, unbending, inflexible, hard, unbendable, tough, solid, solidified, stiffened, unyielding, brittle: The table napkins were so stiff with starch that I almost cracked one. 2 severe, harsh, punitive, hurtful, punishing, abusive, torturous, distressing, afflictive, painful, overwhelming, unbearable, tormenting, merciless, excruciating, cruel, drastic, US cruel and unusual: The government here has stiff penalties for drug traffickers. 3 strong, potent, powerful, overpowering, alcoholic: After that kind of an ordeal, you could use a stiff drink, I'm sure. 4 vigorous, energetic, staunch, dogged, tenacious, resolute, resolved, determined, stubborn, obstinate, unyielding, indomitable, relentless: They met with stiff opposition in trying to capture the fort. 5 strong, steady, powerful, fresh, brisk, spanking, gusty, forceful, howling: We had to reduce sail because of a stiff westerly wind. 6 excessive, exorbitant, high, steep, expensive, dear: They are asking a pretty stiff price these days for a bottle of good vintage port. 7 cool, haughty, rigid, wooden, stuffy, aloof, tense, intense, unrelaxed, forced, pompous, stilted, mannered, ceremonious, austere, formal, chilly, cold, unfriendly, standoffish, reserved, snobbish, Colloq snooty, Slang uptight: Vince is warm and friendly, but his wife is as stiff as a poker. 8 stilted, unrelaxed, wooden, forced, artificial, laboured, pedantic, turgid, formal, prim, Colloq stuffy: I have always found her writing to be rather stiff. 9 difficult, hard, steep, uphill, laborious, arduous, tiring, fatiguing, exhausting, harrowing, toilsome, rigorous, challenging, Colloq rough, tough: It is quite a stiff climb to the top of the pyramid of Cheops. That was a stiff homework assignment. 10 solid, semi-solid, firm, hard, thick, dense, compact: If you add a bit more water the next time, the jelly won't get quite so stiff. --n. 11 corpse, body, cadaver: Barry had to go down to the morgue to identify some stiff they haul...
STILL|0|adj. 1 quiet, serene, placid, calm, tranquil, motionless, unmoving, peaceful, pacific, at rest, quiescent, even, flat, smooth, inert, stationary, undisturbed, unruffled: In the moonlight, the lake lay still and dark. 2 silent, quiet, noiseless, soundless; hushed, restful, Literary stilly: Be still or they'll hear you! In the still night I heard the distant sound of an owl. --n. 3 stillness, hush, quiet, silence, tranquillity, noiselessness, peacefulness, calm: In the still of the evening came the call of the nightingale. --adv. 4 even now, to or till or until this or that time, (up) till or until now, yet: Henry came for dinner five years ago, and he's here still. Do you still smoke? 5 even, in addition: Hugh weighed twenty stone when you last saw him, but he's heavier still today. 6 notwithstanding, yet, even then: Are you still going to Sue's party, despite what she said?. 7 motionless(ly), quiet(ly), silent(ly), stock-still: Lie still while I put on this bandage. --conj. 8 however, but, notwithstanding, nevertheless, even so, in any event, in any case: She said she'd be here; still, you never know, she may come later. --v. 9 calm, allay, assuage, alleviate, relieve, silence, lull, quiet(en), pacify, soothe, mollify, appease, subdue, suppress: A few kind words and she had stilled my fears.
STING|0|v. 1 prick, stab, pierce, stick; bite: Bees, wasps, scorpions, etc. sting you, but mosquitoes, spiders, and snakes bite. 2 hurt, wound, pain, injure, distress, nettle, cut to the quick: He was really stung by Maria's callous remarks. 3 See stimulate, 1, above: We were stung into action by the minister's inspiring speech. 4 cheat, overcharge, swindle, fleece, defraud, Slang rob, soak, rip off, take for a ride: You really were stung if you paid that much for such an old piano.
STINT|0|n. 1 share, quota, allotment, bit, assignment, stretch, shift, term, time, job, chore, task, routine, turn, tour, duty, responsibility, obligation, charge: She had done her stint of washing-up and refused to do any more. 2 control, curb, limit, limitation, restriction, check, restraint, constraint, condition, qualification, reservation: The committee is free to exercise without stint its power to raise membership fees. --v. 3 control, curb, limit, restrict: Don't stint yourself, lunch is on the firm. 4 skimp, scrimp, be stingy or cheap or penurious or parsimonious or sparing or frugal, hold back (on), withhold, economize, pinch (pennies), cut corners, Colloq Brit be mingy: They certainly didn't stint on the food and drink at Andrea's party.
STOCK|0|n. 1 supply, store, inventory, stockpile, reserve, reservoir, cache, hoard; wares, merchandise, goods, selection, assortment, range, variety, array: One can select something suitable from the stock at the local wine shop. 2 pedigree, bloodline, house, dynasty, (line of) descent, genealogy, extraction, roots, lineage, family, ancestry, parentage, breeding, heritage: Her mother was concerned that she should marry someone of good stock. 3 source, progenitor, creator, father, begetter, forefather, ancestor, precursor, forerunner, forebear; founder: He might well provide the stock for a new line of kings. 4 livestock, (domestic or farm) animals, cattle, beasts; horses, cows, oxen, sheep, goats: Don't forget to water the stock before driving to the village. 5 share, ownership, investment, capital, funds; property, assets: He owned ten shares of stock in the corporation. The company's stock is worth next to nothing today. 6 take stock. weigh (up), estimate, review, appraise, look at, Colloq size up: We must take stock of the situation and decide what to do. --adj. 7 routine, stereotyped, banal, clich÷d, commonplace, usual, hackneyed, ordinary, stale, staple, run-of-the-mill, tired, old, everyday, customary, set, standard, traditional, trite, worn out, Colloq corny: Ask him how he is and you always get his stock reply, 'Fair to meddling'. 8 standard, ordinary, regular, routine, staple: The shop does not carry 'extra tall' or 'extra short', only stock sizes. --v. 9 carry, have, have or make available, handle, deal in, market, sell, supply, furnish, provide, offer, trade in, keep: The shop stocked a wide range of hardware. 10 Often, stock up (on). accumulate, amass, pile up, stockpile, hoard, store (up), cache, lay in, inventory: Everyone stocked up on food in case the village was blocked by snow.
STOLE|0|n. tippet, scarf, boa, shawl: Mandy was too embarrassed to wear her mink stole to the charity ball.
STONY|0|adj. 1 stoney, rocky, pebbly, shingly, shingled: Some of the beaches along the Riviera are too stony to lie on directly. 2 stoney, hard, obdurate, adamant, adamantine, heartless, stony-hearted, hard-hearted, indifferent, unsympathetic, implacable, intractable, heartless, insensitive, insensible, unfeeling, unsentimental, merciless, pitiless, cold, cold-hearted, chilly, frigid, icy, tough, callous, steely, inflexible, unresponsive, Colloq hard-boiled: He listened to her pleadings in stony silence. 3 bankrupt, penniless, indigent, poverty-stricken, poor, Colloq broke, Chiefly Brit stoney, stony-broke or stoney-broke, skint: At the time, I was so stony I didn't have two pennies to rub together.
STOOP|0|v. 1 Sometimes, stoop down. bend (down), bow, duck (down), lean (down), hunch (down), hunker (down), crouch (down), scrunch down: She had to stoop down to talk to the child. 2 Often, stoop low. condescend, deign, lower or abase or degrade oneself, sink, humble oneself; be demeaned or diminished: She had to stoop pretty low to accept a job paying only half of what she had demanded. --n. 3 hunch, slouch, scrunch, crouch, stooping, slouching, Technical lordosis, curvature of the spine, torticollis, wryneck: The orthopaedist thought his stoop could be corrected by a back brace.
STORE|0|v. 1 stock, collect, accumulate, put by, lay away, set aside, pile (up), aggregate, amass, cumulate; hoard; assemble: The corn is stored in huge silos. 2 keep, hold, stow (away), preserve, warehouse, stockpile: Apples should be stored in a cool, dry place. --n. 3 supply, inventory, collection, accumulation, stock, stockpile, reservoir, cache, fund: We keep a large store of dry foods for an emergency. Grandfather has an endless store of tales about the sea. 4 shop, department store, market, retailer, outlet, cooperative (store), Colloq co-op: You might get a good fridge at a department store. 5 set or lay store by. give credence to, believe (in), have faith or trust in, trust (in), bank or rely on, depend on or upon, count on, value: I shouldn't set much store by what that old gossip tells you.
STORM|0|n. 1 tempest, disturbance, turbulence; wind-storm, mistral, gale, whirlwind, hurricane, tornado, typhoon, cyclone, US and Canadian williwaw; shower, cloudburst, downpour, rainstorm, deluge, monsoon, thunder-shower, thunderstorm, electrical storm; dust-storm, sandstorm, simoom or simoon or samiel, harmattan, khamsin, sirocco; snowstorm, blizzard; hailstorm, ice-storm: People were evacuated from the area where it was thought the storm would strike. 2 outburst, outcry, explosion, eruption, outpouring, furore or US furor: The proposed taxes were met by a storm of protest. 3 disturbance, rumpus, stir, commotion, agitation, furore or US furor; turbulence, strife, turmoil, disorder: I am not sure the company could weather another serious financial storm. --v. 4 rage, rant, rave, bluster, fume, explode, thunder, roar, raise the roof, raise hell, raise Cain, Colloq fly off the handle, blow one's top, US blow one's stack: When she found out where Laura had gone, mother stormed round the house. 5 blow, rain, hail, snow, sleet, rage, bluster, squall, howl: It stormed for a week, and much property was destroyed. 6 attack, assault, assail, raid, blitz, blitzkrieg, bombard, barrage, fire upon or on, shell; besiege, lay siege to, siege: The enemy stormed the castle again and again without effect.
STORY|0|n. 1 narrative, tale, recounting, anecdote, yarn; account, recital, chronicle, record, history; legend, myth, fairy tale or story, romance, gest or geste, fable, fabliau; epic, saga, Edda; joke, Colloq gag; mystery, detective story, whodunit, thriller; horror story; allegory, parable; piece, article: In olden days, the historians were the story tellers. George really knows how to tell a story. Have any of your stories been published? 2 contention, testimony, assertion, version, statement, representation, allegation: That's his story and he's sticking to it. 3 fib, confabulation, (white or black) lie, alibi, excuse, untruth, falsehood; tall tale, fishing or fish story: He told us some story about having sailed round the world single-handed in a dinghy. Did you believe her story about being of royal blood? 4 article, item, report, dispatch, news, tidings, release, information, copy, feature; scoop, exclusive: A story about China appears on page two. 5 story-line, plot, scenario, (plot) outline, summary, book: The story needs some revision before the dialogue can be rewritten. 6 biography, curriculum vitae, life (story); facts, experiences, adventures, fortunes: His story is going to be made into a film.
STOUT|0|adj. 1 fat, obese, tubby, overweight, thickset, heavy-set, big, burly, corpulent, fleshy, heavy, plump, portly: She squeezed onto the seat between the door and a rather stout man. 2 valiant, brave, undaunted, dauntless, hardy, courageous, gallant, plucky, valorous, staunch, resolute, doughty, bold, gallant: 'Stout fellow!' exclaimed the colonel, the ultimate compliment he was ever heard to utter. 3 strong, tough, substantial, durable: Tie stout cord round the box before posting it. 4 brawny, sturdy, healthy, robust, strapping, stalwart, lusty, hulking, athletic, Colloq beefy, husky: Two stout bouncers flanked the entrance to the club.
STRAY|0|v. 1 wander, roam, rove, range, straggle, drift, meander: They found the ponies straying up the valley and across the moor. 2 deviate, diverge, wander, digress, ramble, divagate, get or go off the track or subject, go off on or at a tangent, get sidetracked: She let her mind stray from the matter in hand. --n. 3 straggler, vagrant, waif, US dogie: They have always taken in and cared for strays. --adj. 4 vagrant, lost, roving, roaming, wandering, homeless, derelict, abandoned: The problem with stray pets increases when people abandon them on returning home after the summer. 5 random, casual, chance, accidental, haphazard, singular, freak, accidental, unexpected: A stray bullet caught him in the leg. 6 isolated, separate(d), lone, odd, single: She brushed a stray hair from her face.
STREW|0|v. scatter, bestrew, sprinkle, disperse, spread, toss, distribute; litter: Rubbish was strewn all over the floor.
STRIP|0|n. band, ribbon, fillet, belt, swath or swathe, stripe: She wore a strip of embroidered silk tied round her head. They began farming the strip of land near the lake.
STRUT|0|v. swagger, parade, promenade, peacock, prance: She goes strutting about the office as if she were the boss.
STUDY|0|v. 1 learn (about), read, con, memorize, burn the midnight oil, lucubrate, Colloq bone up (on), cram, Brit swot or swat, mug up: I want to study music. She has to study for an exam. 2 contemplate, consider, reflect on, think over or about, ruminate on, chew over, turn over, weigh, ponder, deliberate over or on or about, muse about or on, mull over, meditate on or about or over: I want to study the problem before deciding what to do. 3 look or go into or over, look at, scan, examine, analyse, inspect, investigate, scrutinize, survey, observe: The crime squad studied every square inch of the murder scene. Avoiding the issue as usual, Joyce silently studied her fingernails. --n. 4 analysis, review, examination, survey, inquiry or enquiry, investigation, scrutiny, research, exploration: Government funds are paying for a study of the ecosystem of the Norfolk Broads. 5 learning, lessons, bookwork, work, reading, contemplation, investigation, Colloq boning up, cramming, Brit swotting or swatting: The study of anthropology is what led him to his theory of linguistic universals. 6 library, reading or writing-room, sanctum (sanctorum), haunt, studio, retreat, den, workroom, office: Let's go into the study and talk business.
STUFF|0|n. 1 substance, material, matter, fabric, ingredients, essence, essentials, fundamentals, building blocks, makings: This is the stuff that dreams are made on. Is hydrogen the basic stuff of the universe? 2 equipment, goods, gear, trappings, kit, tackle, accessories, paraphernalia, accoutrements or US also accouterments, effects, belongings, possessions, things, bits and pieces, impedimenta, baggage, property, chattels, furniture, Brit lumber, Colloq junk, rubbish, crap, Brit clobber, Taboo slang shit: Graham left all his stuff with his mother when he went west. 3 spirit, attitude, grit, substance, makings, talent(s), abilities, capabilities, qualities, attributes: Is Simon the stuff of which commandos are made? 4 nonsense, trash, rubbish, stuff and nonsense, twaddle, humbug, bunkum, tommy-rot, balderdash, Colloq rot, garbage, bunk, tripe, poppycock, crap, malarkey, boloney or baloney, bosh, hogwash, swill, claptrap, piffle, hot air, flapdoodle, fiddle-faddle, codswallop, bull, US horse feathers, Taboo slang bullshit, horseshit: You don't believe all that stuff you've been reading about me, do you? 5 creations, accomplishments, things, works, materials, matter: Without the attributions, I'd have trouble telling their stuff apart. --v. 6 jam, ram, cram, crowd, compress, pack, press, squeeze, squash, shove, thrust, force: You couldn't stuff another handkerchief into that suitcase. 7 line, fill, pack: Stuff the chicken with the following mixture. 8 overeat, gorge, overindulge, gormandize, gluttonize, Colloq make a pig or a hog of oneself: They really stuffed themselves at the wedding reception. 9 stuff up. clog, plug, obstruct, choke, block (up), stop or US also pack up: Phone the plumber: the drain is stuffed up again. The cold had given her a headache and a stuffed-up nose.
STUNT|0|n. caper, act, deed, feat, tour de force, exploit, trick, US dido: The dangerous stunts are done by a stand-in for the star.
STYLE|0|n. 1 type, kind, variety, category, genre, sort, manner, mode, make, design, fashion, look, period, pattern, configuration, line, cut, shape, form: That style of jacket looks really good on you. They are planning to build the house in the pointed Gothic style. 2 fashion, trend, vogue, mode, look, rage, craze, Colloq fad, (latest) thing: The current style is for shorter skirts. 3 luxury, high style, comfort, opulence, splendour, elegance: Now that he's won all that money, they live in style on the Costa Smeralda. 4 chic, stylishness, taste, smartness, flair, dash, ÷lan, panache, cachet, tastefulness, fashionableness, elegance, refinement, polish, sophistication, sophisticatedness, cosmopolitanism, Colloq pizazz; ritziness: Irena has more style in her little finger than you have in your whole body. 5 quality, character, mode of expression, approach, treatment, vein, colouring, spirit, mood, form, technique; tenor, tone, wording, phraseology, phrasing, language, vocabulary, word choice, diction, sentence structure: The pointillist style of painting appeals to many. His style of writing is reminiscent of Stevenson's. 6 in style. See stylish, below. --v. 7 characterize, designate, denominate, call, name, term, label, tag, brand: The use of the indicative for the subjunctive is no longer styled a solecism in British English. 8 fashion, design, arrange, set, do, cut, tailor, shape, form: Antoine styled my hair in a page-boy for the reception.
SUAVE|0|adj. debonair, sophisticated, urbane, cosmopolitan, worldly, smooth, gracious, nonchalant, civilized, cultivated, courteous, diplomatic, polite, charming, agreeable, affable, bland: Fictional detectives range from the suave Simon Templar to the earthy Philip Marlowe.
SUITE|0|n. 1 set, series, collection, number: They gave us a beautiful suite of rooms at the hotel. 2 set: She bought a new suite of dining-room furniture. 3 following, retinue, entourage, train, cortëge, convoy, escort; followers, attendants, retainers: Her suite includes advisors, secretaries, hairdressers, and bodyguards.
SULLY|0|v. besmirch, stain, smirch, blemish, mar, defile, soil, disgrace, dirty, tarnish, pollute, spoil, ruin, destroy, wreck: Sadly, his reputation was sullied when his company was found to be involved in insider trading.
SUPER|0|adj. wonderful: A super collection of synonyms for this word appears under superb, below.
SURGE|0|v. 1 swell, wave, billow, bulge, heave, roll, undulate, well forth or up, rise and fall, ebb and flow, pulsate; rush, gush, pour, flood, stream, flow: The sea surged through the narrow gorge with a roar. The crowd surged round their hero. --n. 2 swell, wave, billow, roller, whitecap, white horse, breaker, comber, upsurge, eddy, rush, gush, flood, stream, flow: The raft was caught by a surge and tossed high up on the beach.
SURLY|0|adj. unpleasant, rude, crusty, cantankerous, curmudgeonly, churlish, crabby, crabbed, choleric, splenetic, dyspeptic, bilious, temperamental, cross, crotchety, grouchy, grumpy, bearish, testy, touchy, short-tempered, ill-tempered, bad-tempered, ill-natured, bad-natured, ill-humoured, peevish, quarrelsome, argumentative, obnoxious, uncivil, rough, obstreperous: I see no reason to shop where the sales staff are surly.
SWATH|0|n. swathe, path, belt, strip: A flock of birds was feeding along the swath cut by the harvester.
SWEAR|0|v. 1 depose, aver, asseverate, declare, insist, assert, solemnly affirm or state, testify, promise, take an oath, undertake, vow, avow, vouchsafe, warrant, pledge, give one's word, agree: He swore he had not done any such thing. 2 curse, blaspheme, imprecate, use profanity, utter profanities, execrate, Colloq cuss: Priscilla stopped her ears at the men's swearing. 3 swear by. trust (in), believe in, rely on, have confidence in, count on: The colonel swears by the same old fountain-pen he has used for years and will use no other. 4 swear off. forswear, renounce, abjure, go off, forgo, shun, avoid, give up, eschew, forsake, throw over: Brian tells me he's sworn off alcohol for a while.
SWEAT|0|v. 1 perspire, glow: That workout made me sweat. 2 Often, sweat out. worry, be anxious, agonize, anguish, bite (one's) nails, be on pins and needles, fret, fuss, stew, torture or torment oneself, lose sleep (over), Colloq sweat blood, be in a tizzy, US sweat bullets: The professors really like to make students sweat, don't they? Fiona is sweating it out till the results are posted. 3 slave (away), labour, drudge, grind, toil and moil, slog, work like a Trojan or a horse, Slang Brit swot or swat: I sweat over a hot stove all day while you're out and about town. 4 ooze, exude, squeeze out, transude: When a boy, he believed that dew came from flowers sweating water. --n. 5 perspiration, Technical diaphoresis, sudor: In addition to body moisture, salt and other minerals are lost in sweat. 6 (hard) work, labour, laboriousness, grind, toil, drudgery, slogging, sweating, Slang Brit swotting or swatting: Nothing worthwhile is gained without some sweat. 7 state of confusion or upset or excitement or distraction or agitation or anxiety or distress or worry; pother, Colloq dither, tizzy, lather: Henry has really worked himself up into a sweat over this problem. 8 No sweat! No problem!, Don't worry!, Everything is taken care of!, All is well!, That presents no difficulty!: When asked to change a flat tyre, the stranger's response was, 'No sweat!'
SWEEP|0|v. 1 brush, whisk, clean, clear, tidy up: This weekend I have to sweep out the basement. 2 Often, sweep away. carry or take (away or off), destroy, wipe out, demolish, remove, wash (away); blow (away): The raging torrent swept away the bridge. The wind swept the debris before it. 3 swoop, flounce, glide, sail, march, parade, skim, tear, dash, zoom: Hattie swept into the room majestically. 4 curve, arc, arch, bend, bow, circle, turn: The long drive to the house sweeps round the pond and gardens. --n. 5 pass, clearance, stroke; purge: In one clean sweep the police rounded up all the suspects. 6 curve, arc, arch, bow, bend, curvature, flexure: Note the sweep of those main arches holding up the dome. 7 range, extent, compass, reach, stretch, scope, swing, span: The Hubbell space telescope has a farther sweep than any on earth.
SWEET|0|adj. 1 sugary, honey-like, honeyed, sweetened: Sweet breakfast cereals are bad for your teeth. 2 fragrant, perfumed, scented, aromatic, ambrosial, sweet-smelling, sweet-scented, balmy, redolent: The night air was sweet with jasmine. 3 harmonious, melodious, sweet-sounding, euphonious, dulcet, musical, tuneful, euphonic, mellifluous, mellow, lyric, silvery, bell-like, golden: I could hear McCormick's sweet voice singing 'Danny Boy'. 4 gentle, amiable, agreeable, genial, warm, friendly, kind, nice, unassuming, easygoing; attractive, appealing, charming, winning, pleasant, pleasing, lovely; cute, pretty: Jane normally has such a sweet disposition. Old Mrs Hughes was always sweet to me when I was little. Amy looks so sweet in her new dress. What a sweet little kitten! 5 dear, beloved, precious, prized, treasured, wonderful, marvellous, splendid, Colloq great: How sweet life can be! 6 considerate, attentive, solicitous, thoughtful, sympathetic, compassionate, kind, kind-hearted, generous, gracious, accommodating: How sweet it was of you to bring flowers! 7 cloying, sentimental, syrupy, saccharine, treacly, precious, honeyed, sickening, Colloq gushing, gushy, sloppy, soppy, maudlin, sticky, Brit twee, Colloq icky: Claire is so sweet that she really overdoes it sometimes. 8 sweet on. fond of, taken with, keen on, devoted to, enamoured of, infatuated with, (head over heels) in love with, Colloq wild or mad or crazy about, nuts about or over, Slang gone on, stuck on, batty about: We were teasing Rick about being sweet on Anne. --n. 9 Often, sweets. bon-bon, chocolate, confection, sweetmeat, Old-fashioned comfit, US candy: Harry always brings a box of sweets for my mother when he comes to see me. 10 dessert, Brit pudding, afters: For a sweet we can offer you a choice between chocolate gateau and gooseberry pie.
SWELL|0|v. 1 Often, swell out or up. grow, increase, enlarge, expand, blow or puff up or out, distend, inflate, dilate, wax; mushroom, belly, balloon, bloat, bulge, billow, fatten, rise, tumefy: After cooking, the mixture swells to twice its original volume. 2 grow, increase, mushroom, snowball, accumulate, mount: Forgotten for years, her savings had swelled to become a small fortune. 3 increase, raise, augment, enlarge, boost, step up: Something must be done to swell the number of recruits. --n. 4 enlargement, broadening, increase, extension, spread, swelling, inflation, expansion, rise, surge: Have you noted the swell in popularity of health foods? 5 wave, surge, billow: As we rose to the top of each swell, we could see the shore. 6 fop, dandy, gay blade, fashion plate, Beau Brummell, Archaic coxcomb, Historical macaroni, Colloq clothes-horse, US fancy Dan, Slang nob, Archaic lounge lizard, Brit toff: He frequented the clubs populated by the other London swells. --adj. 7 smart, chic, stylish, fashionable, modish, grand, luxurious, de luxe, elegant, first-rate, first-class, top-grade, Colloq posh, swank, swanky, ritzy: Charlie always took Diane to the swellest places. 8 marvellous, thrilling, splendid, spectacular, first-rate, fine, Colloq great, super, terrific: I really had a swell time at your party.
SWIFT|0|adj. fleet, fast, rapid, speedy, hasty, lively, nimble, expeditious; quick, brisk, sudden, abrupt: The postman was bent on the swift completion of his rounds. What Bill needs is a swift kick to jolt him out of his lethargy.
SWILL|0|n. 1 hogwash, pigswill, refuse, pigwash, slop(s), garbage, waste: If you saw the swill that pigs eat, you might not eat pork. 2 nonsense, rot, rubbish, Slang crap: That novel of hers was the worst swill I've read in a long time. --v. 3 drink, guzzle, quaff, swallow, Colloq swig, toss off or down, throw down, polish off, knock back or off, US chug-a-lug: They waste every evening swilling beer.
SWING|0|v. 1 sway, move or go to and fro or back and forth or backwards and forwards, come and go, wave, fluctuate, flap, oscillate, vibrate, librate, waver, wobble, waggle, zigzag, wigwag, flourish: The branches swung in the wind. They swung their arms in time to the music. 2 hang, dangle; be hanged, be suspended: They watched the monkeys swinging from tree to tree. He will swing for his crime. --n. 3 swinging, sway, swaying, toing and froing, coming and going, waving, fluctuation, fluctuating, flapping, flap, oscillation, oscillating, vibration, vibrating, libration, waver, wavering, wobble, wobbling, waggle, waggling, zigzag, zigzagging, wigwag, wigwagging, flourish, flourishing, stroke: Catch the rope on its next swing. He was caught on the shoulder by a wild swing of the bat. 4 sweep, scope, range, trend, limit(s); change, switch, shift: The swing of public opinion is unpredictable in these matters. There has been a small percentage swing to the Conservatives. 5 pace, routine, groove, pattern: Don't you find it hard to get into the normal swing of things after a long holiday? 6 in full swing. in (full) operation, under way, in business, animated, lively, on the move, moving, going, Colloq on the hop, cooking: The party was in full swing when we arrived.
SWIPE|0|v. 1 Usually, swipe at. swing at, strike at, hit at, lash out at: He swiped away at the golf ball but kept missing it. 2 steal, filch, pilfer, purloin, Colloq pinch, lift, snitch, Chiefly Brit nick, whip, snaffle: They caught Freddie swiping a bag of mints at Woolworth's. --n. 3 swing, strike, clip: Ronald took a swipe at the ball with his racket.
SWISH|0|v. 1 hiss, whisk, rustle, whisper, susurrate: I heard Elena swish up behind me in her red silk taffeta dress. --n. 2 hiss, hissing sound, whoosh, swoosh, rustle, whistle: With a quick swish the machete knifed through the underbrush. --adj. 3 elegant, fashionable, stylish, de rigueur, smart, Colloq posh, plush, ritzy, swell, swank(y): Liza bought a swish new outfit for the wedding. 4 homosexual, effeminate, swishy, camp(y), US fruity, limp-wristed, Colloq queer, gay, Chiefly Brit bent, US faggy, Slang kinky: He used to bring his swish friends here, but not lately.
TABLE|0|n. 1 food, victuals, provender, comestible, edibles, eatables, fare, board, provisions: One can rely on a fine table at Mrs McGuire's. 2 plain, flatland, mesa, tableland, plateau, steppe: The area is barren lava table from horizon to horizon. 3 (tabular or columnar) list or listing, register, record, tabulation, chart, catalogue, index, inventory, itemization, pr÷cis, table of contents: The figures are easier to understand when arranged in a table. --v. 4 submit, present, offer, proffer, bring forward, bring up, propose: The bill will be tabled for action today. 5 shelve, postpone, defer, suspend, put off, stay, pigeon-hole, mothball, Colloq put on ice: When the bill came up we tabled it for six months.
TACIT|0|adj. unspoken, undeclared, unsaid, unstated, unvoiced, unuttered, silent, understood, unexpressed, implied, implicit: The sisters have a tacit agreement not to poach each other's boyfriends. He gave me a look of tacit gratitude.
TAINT|0|n. 1 stain, blot, blemish, slur, tinge, tincture, (black or bad) mark, stigma, imperfection, flaw, scar, defect; discredit, dishonour: His writing suffers from the taint of pedantry. --v. 2 sully, tarnish, stain, stigmatize, smear, harm, hurt, damage, debase, vitiate, blacken, foul, contaminate, pollute, dirty, muddy, smirch, besmirch, blemish, soil, corrupt, spoil, defile, ruin, destroy: It takes very little to taint one's reputation in a small village.
TAKEN|0|adj. captivated, entranced, enchanted, charmed, bewitched, infatuated: I was so taken with Lucinda that I started blushing like a teenager.
TALLY|0|v. 1 agree, coincide, accord, correspond, fit, compare, match (up), square, conform, concur, harmonize, Colloq US jibe: Nothing I could do would make my figures tally with those of the bank. 2 Sometimes, tally up. count (up or out), enumerate, record, register, reckon, add (up), total (up), tabulate, itemize, list, calculate, compute: Please tally up what I owe you. --n. 3 count, enumeration, record, register, reckoning, addition, total, tabulation, itemization, listing, calculation, computation: According to my tally, you owe ø156.72. 4 ticket, label, mark, marker, tag, tab: Each plant can be identified by its own tally. 5 counterfoil, stub, counterpart, duplicate, mate: If you lose your tally you cannot get back your luggage.
TAPER|0|v. 1 narrow (down), thin, diminish, come or go down: Note how the trousers taper towards the ankles. 2 Often, taper off. diminish, reduce, thin out, wind down, decrease, fade, lessen, peter out, fall off, wane, subside, let up, slacken, die away or down or off or out, decline, slow (down or up), weaken, abate, ebb, slump, drop (off), fall (off), plummet: Sales of ice skates can be expected to taper off during the summer.
TARDY|0|adj. 1 late, unpunctual, behind schedule, overdue, behindhand: Yet again you have been somewhat tardy in completing your assignments. 2 slow, dilatory, belated, slack, retarded, sluggish, reluctant, indolent, lackadaisical, listless, phlegmatic, slothful, lethargic, languid: They have been tardy in acknowledging the importance of Allen's work.
TARRY|0|v. 1 delay, pause, wait, linger, loiter, stall, procrastinate, dawdle, bide one's time, temporize, hang back, Colloq hang on or about or (a)round: They tarried in the pub, and missed their train. 2 remain, sojourn, stay, stop, rest, dwell, bide (one's) time, settle: She plans to tarry at Eastbourne for a while.
TASTE|0|n. 1 drop, soupúon, dash, pinch, touch, hint, suggestion, grain, trace, bit; flavour, savour, relish, tang: I added just the tiniest taste of coriander to the sauce. 2 sample, morsel, bite, mouthful, bite, sip, nip, swallow: I had a taste of the sauce and it's superb. 3 palate, desire, inclination, leaning, partiality, disposition, penchant, liking, fancy, preference, fondness, appetite, relish, stomach, tolerance: She developed a taste for caviare and champagne while working in television. 4 discernment, discrimination, perception, judgement, cultivation, refinement, stylishness, grace, polish, elegance: Her unerring taste leads her to select only the best. 5 style, mode, fashion, manner, form, design, motif: The room was decorated in Moorish taste. 6 decorum, discretion, tactfulness, delicacy, refinement, politesse, politeness, correctness, propriety, tastefulness: Evan's taste would never allow him to say anything rude. --v. 7 savour, sample, examine, try, test: Taste this and see if it's too salty. 8 experience, sample, know, have knowledge of, undergo, encounter, meet (with), come up against: As a young man he had tasted the pleasures of Paris.
TASTY|0|adj. delicious, delectable, luscious, flavorous, flavoursome, flavourful, savoury, toothsome, palatable, appetizing, sapid, mouth-watering, ambrosial, Colloq yummy, scrumptious: They serve a very tasty curry at that Indian restaurant.
TAUNT|0|v. 1 tease, jeer (at), flout, twit, mock, torment, annoy, make fun or sport of, poke fun at, deride, sneer (at), scoff (at), insult, ridicule, burlesque, lampoon, US ride, Colloq kid, rib, roast, put down, Brit guy, Slang bug, rag, hassle, US get on (someone's) case: The boys used to taunt him, calling him 'Shrimpo' because he was so short. --n. 2 jeer, gibe, brickbat, insult, scoff, derision, sneer, slap (in the face), raspberry, Colloq dig, US Bronx cheer: At 17, he was six feet tall and no longer had to tolerate his classmates' taunts.
TEACH|0|v. instruct (in), inform (about), communicate (to), educate, guide, train, tutor, coach, enlighten, edify, indoctrinate, inculcate, instil, school in, demonstrate, show, familiarize or acquaint with, give lessons (in) (to); drill, discipline: She is qualified to teach chemistry. Captain Ross taught many youngsters to sail. She wants to teach when she completes her training.
TEASE|0|v. 1 bait, taunt, torment, harass, bedevil, bother, nettle, plague, chaff, pester, annoy, irritate, needle, goad, badger, provoke, vex, twit, tantalize, frustrate, Non-Standard aggravate, Colloq guy, pick on, rib, drive mad or crazy, drive up the wall, Brit take the mickey out of, Slang rag: Stop teasing the animals! Frances would tease me by agreeing to go out and then begging off with a headache. 2 coax, worry, winkle, work, manipulate: He was finally able to tease the broken piece of key out of the lock.
TEMPO|0|n. cadence, rhythm, beat, time, pulse, metre, measure; pace, speed, rate: The melody should be played in waltz tempo. Living in the country, Tom is unaccustomed to the tempo of big-city life.
TEMPT|0|v. 1 attract, entice, lure, allure, draw (in), invite, lead on, whet (one's) appetite, seduce, captivate, persuade, coax, cajole: They had a special offer to tempt new customers. 2 lead, induce, persuade, prompt, move, incline, dispose: I would be tempted to resign if they treated me that way. 3 provoke, dare, (put to the) test: I shouldn't tempt Providence if I were you.
TENET|0|n. belief, credo, creed, article of faith, ideology, precept, conviction, principle, dogma, idea, opinion, position, view, viewpoint, maxim, axiom, canon, teaching, doctrine: They accept the Golden Rule as a fundamental tenet of their organization.
TENOR|0|n. drift, tone, spirit, essence, character, gist, bias, import, substance, effect, significance, meaning, sense, connotation, theme, thread, implication, inference, intent, purpose, tendency, purport, direction: The general tenor of Mark's letters was unfriendly.
TENSE|0|adj. 1 taut, strained, stiff, under tension, rigid: One could see how tense the muscles were under the skin. 2 intense, nervous, anxious, under (a) strain, highly-strung, high-strung, strained, on edge, wrought up, keyed up, worked up, taut, on tenterhooks, apprehensive, distressed, upset, disturbed, worried, edgy, on pins and needles, jumpy, fidgety, overwrought, Colloq wound up, jittery, having a case of the jitters, Brit strung up, US strung out, Slang uptight, US antsy: Try to relax and not be so tense. 3 nervous, anxious, worrying, worrisome, distressing, disturbing, stressful, nerve-racking or nerve-wracking, fraught, disquieting: Those were tense moments while we waited for the winner's name to be posted. --v. 4 tighten, stretch, strain, tauten, tension: The mast will be secure once the stays have been tensed.
TEPID|0|adj. 1 lukewarm, warmish: The gelatine should be tepid before refrigerating it. 2 lukewarm, unenthusiastic, cool, indifferent, apathetic, uninterested, unconcerned, nonchalant, uncaring, neutral, blas÷: How can he remain tepid on an issue like apartheid?
TERSE|0|adj. 1 concise, brief, short, compact, pithy, succinct, summary, laconic, short and sweet, to the point, sententious, crisp, epigrammatic, aphoristic; distilled, condensed, compendious, abbreviated, abridged, shortened, concentrated: He gave a terse account of what had happened. 2 abrupt, curt, short, brusque, blunt, gruff, bluff, ungracious, petulant, tart, rude: His answer was terse and unhelpful.
TESTY|0|adj. irritable, bad-tempered, irascible, short-tempered, petulant, touchy, tetchy, querulous, peevish, hot-tempered, crusty, cross, grumpy, grouchy, bearish, crabby, crabbed, fretful, captious, waspish, snappish, quarrelsome, fractious, contentious, choleric, splenetic, ill-humoured, disagreeable, ill-tempered, edgy, on edge, quick-tempered, crotchety, cantankerous, US cranky, Colloq and US and Canadian dialect ornery: The old colonel made a few testy remarks about the boys' haircuts. Why make excuses for his being so testy?
THANK|0|v. 1 express or show (one's) gratitude or thanks or appreciation, say thank you or thanks, give or offer or tender thanks: Don't forget to thank your uncle for the gift, William. 2 blame, hold responsible, credit, acknowledge: You have your mother to thank for the present state of affairs. --n. 3 thanks. gratitude, appreciation, gratefulness, acknowledgement, recognition, thanksgiving: I gave thanks that I was again on dry land. 4 thanks to. owing to, because of, as a result of, thanks be given to, in consequence of, as a consequence of, by reason of, through, Sometimes non-standard due to: Thanks to you, I have to commute to work by train.
THEME|0|n. 1 subject(-matter), topic, idea, notion, concept, thesis, text, thread, keynote, gist, core, substance, point, essence: What is the central theme of your article? 2 essay, paper, composition, review, article, story, piece, exposition, study, exercise, monograph, tract, thesis, dissertation, disquisition, treatise: I have to hand in two themes next week.
THICK|0|adj. 1 broad, wide, solid, thickset, burly, ample, solid, bulky, substantial, beamy: He sank his teeth into the thickest sandwich I have ever seen. She is a bit thicker in the mid-section than I had remembered, but a good ketch nonetheless. 2 Usually, thick with. dense, solid, compact, concentrated, condensed, packed, close-packed, compressed, crowded, choked, filled, full, deep, clotted, chock-full or choke-full or chuck-full, chock-a-block, teeming, swarming, alive, bristling, crawling, bursting, crammed, jammed, brimming, Colloq lousy with: The gallery was thick with visitors. 3 compact, condensed, compressed, choking, packed, impenetrable, impassable, dense; pea-soup, soupy, murky, misty, foggy, smoggy, smoky, opaque, obscure, obscuring, hazy: We plunged deeper into the thick jungle. A thick fog blanketed the valley. 4 abundant, plentiful, bushy, luxuriant: Her thick red hair tumbled down over her shoulders. 5 dense, viscid, viscous, gelatinous, mucilaginous, gluey, glutinous, ropy, coagulated, clotted, congealed, jelled, jellied, inspissated, stiffish; stiff, firm, rigid, solid: For a thicker sauce, use cornflour. 6 thickheaded, thick-witted, thick-skulled, dense, stupid, slow, slow-witted, dull, dull-witted, stolid, obtuse, gormless, boneheaded, fat-headed, pin-headed, wooden-headed, addle-pated, halfwitted, block-headed, doltish, Boeotian, cretinous, imbecilic, moronic, US thimble-witted; insensitive, thick-skinned; Colloq dim-witted, Slang dopey: How could anyone so thick have become an executive? 7 guttural, hoarse, throaty, raspy, rasping, rough, husky, grating, gravelly, indistinct, distorted, inarticulate; gruff, raucous: 'I need you,' he moaned, his voice thick with emotion. 8 close, friendly, like that, inseparable, devoted, hand in glove, on good terms, on the best (of) terms, intimate, Colloq chummy, pally, (as) thick as thieves, Brit matey, well in, US palsy-walsy: We were thick in the old days, going everywhere together. 9 marked, pronounced, stron...
THIEF|0|n. 1 robber, burglar, cat burglar, housebreaker, picklock, sneak-thief, safe-cracker, pilferer, shoplifter, purloiner; embezzler, peculator; pickpocket, cutpurse, purse-snatcher, mugger, highwayman, footpad, brigand, bandit, thug, dacoit, ruffian, outlaw, desperado, hijacker, gunman, plunderer; poacher; Technical kleptomaniac, Australian bush-ranger, US road-agent, Colloq hold-up man, crook, US second-story or second-storey man, bandito or bandido, Slang cracksman, box man, dip, stick-up man: They caught the thief who took the paintings. 2 cheat, swindler, confidence man, mountebank, charlatan, sharper, trickster, flimflam artist or man, thimblerigger, Colloq con man, con artist, shell-game artist, US highbinder: That thief cheated them out of their savings. 3 pirate, (sea) rover, picaroon or pickaroon, corsair, freebooter, buccaneer, marauder, filibuster, privateer: They might seem romantic in retrospect, but at the time, pirates were no more than common thieves.
THING|0|n. 1 item, (inanimate) object, article, possession: They went without leaving a thing behind. 2 item, subject, matter, detail, feature, aspect, affair, constituent, element, factor, point: There's one thing that I forgot to mention. It's a small thing, but I like coffee with my breakfast. 3 fad, trend, fashion: Let me show you the latest thing in sports cars. 4 feeling, reaction, attitude, sentiment, emotional attachment; quirk, fixation, preoccupation, obsession; fetish or fetich, id÷e fixe, affection, liking, partiality, predilection, fancy, love, passion, mania; phobia, fear, terror, aversion, loathing, horror, detestation, dislike, Colloq hang-up: A chocoholic has a thing about chocolate. Pet snakes are not Patricia's thing. Roger has a thing about going out in public. 5 device, item, gadget, object, entity, mechanism, contrivance, apparatus, instrument, utensil, Colloq dingus, doodad, whatchamacallit, thingumajig, whosis, whatsis, thingummy, thingumabob, Chiefly US and Canadian gismo or gizmo: Where's the thing that is supposed to hold the flywheel in place? 6 chore, task, responsibility, matter; act, action, deed, activity, proceeding: The first thing I must do is to phone home. 7 opportunity, chance, possibility: See me first thing tomorrow. 8 things. a affairs, matters, business, concerns: I have to take care of some things at the office today. b circumstances, events, happenings: Things are rarely what they seem. c belongings, luggage, baggage, impedimenta, possessions, paraphernalia, effects, clothes, clothing, goods; equipment, tools, utensils, implements, apparatus, Colloq gear, stuff, Slang Brit clobber, US crap, junk, Taboo slang US shit: Take your things and leave at once! The plumber left his things at the shop.
THINK|0|v. 1 believe, imagine, expect, dream, fantasize, suppose: When do you think that you will retire? 2 judge, reckon, consider, deem, regard (as), characterize (as), believe, assume, mark: They thought him a fool for making such a fuss. 3 contemplate, cogitate (on or over or about), ruminate (over or about), reflect (on), meditate (on or over or about), muse (on or over or about), deliberate (on or over or about), think about or of or over: He likes to sit in the bath and think. I need time to think over your proposal. 4 Often, think of. recall, remember, recollect, call to mind: I simply cannot think of the name of that film we saw last week. 5 think of or about. a consider, ponder, weigh, contemplate, muse over, have in mind, mull over, entertain the idea or notion of, intend, have in mind, propose: Do you ever think of retiring? b assess, evaluate, value, judge: What do you think about their latest suggestion? 6 think up or of. devise, concoct, contrive, come up with, invent, conceive (of), dream up, create, make up, improvise: Who thinks up the plots for these dreadful TV series?
THORN|0|n. 1 barb, spine, spike, prickle, bristle, brier, bur or burr, point, bramble, cocklebur: My sleeve caught on the thorn and tore. 2 Often, thorn in (one's) side. bother, irritation, annoyance, nuisance, vexation, torment, torture, scourge, plague, affliction, irritant, bane, Colloq pain in the neck, Taboo slang pain in the Brit arse or US ass: His nagging brother has been a thorn in his side for years.
THROE|0|n. Usually, throes. pang, anguish, struggle, chaos, turmoil, tumult, paroxysm, spasm, fit, seizure, convulsion, Technical ictus: She was in the throes of despair at the dreadful news from home.
THROW|0|v. 1 toss, cast, hurl, fling, sling, pitch, dash, propel, project, shy, bowl, send, launch, Colloq chuck: He threw the ball to the batter with all his might. 2 cast, shed, project: I was hoping you might throw some light on the subject. Coming events throw their shadow before them. 3 throw or bring down, floor, fell, knock down or over, overthrow, upset, overturn: He threw the vase on the floor. 4 dismay, confound, confuse, dumbfound or dumfound, baffle, disconcert, unnerve, throw off or out, unsettle, put off, put (someone) off his or her or their stride or pace or stroke, Colloq discombobulate: Her frank questions about my private life really threw me. 5 throw away. a discard, cast off, dispose of, jettison, get rid of, scrap, throw out, dispense with, Colloq dump, trash, chuck out, Slang ditch: He is a hoarder, refusing to throw anything away. b waste, squander, lose, forgo, fritter away, fail to exploit or take advantage of, Slang blow: He threw away his last chance for a decent life when he left her. 6 throw off. a eject, expel, emit, throw up or out: The volcano throws off rocks every so often. b shake off, rid or free (oneself) of, get rid of, reject, renounce, repudiate: He finally managed to throw off his mother's pernicious influence. c deceive, mislead, decoy, misguide, misdirect, distract, divert, bewilder, confound, confuse, Colloq flummox, bamboozle: He doubled back to throw the dogs off. d See 4, above. 7 throw out. a radiate, emit, send forth, give out or off, diffuse, put out or forth, disseminate: The substance throws out a greenish light. b expel, eject, force out, evict, Colloq Brit turf out, Slang bounce: Henry was thrown out of the pub for rowdy behaviour. c See 5 (a), above. d See 6 (a), above. 8 throw over. jilt, leave, abandon, desert, forsake, break or split up with, Colloq walk out on, chuck, drop: She was heartbroken when he threw her over and married her sister. 9 throw up. a vomit, spit up, puke, spew up, be sick; regurgitate, disgorge,...
TIEIN|0|n. tie-up, relationship, relation, association, connection, link, linkage: They say that there is a tie-in between smoking and lung cancer.
TIEUP|0|n. 1 US and Canadian slow-down, slow-up, entanglement, stoppage, jam, log-jam, traffic jam, delay, congestion: The tie-up was caused by fog on the highway. 2 See tie-in, above.
TIGHT|0|adj. 1 secure, firm, fast, fixed, secured, close-fitting, snug, sealed, hermetically sealed, leak-proof, hermetic, impervious, impenetrable, impermeable, airtight, watertight, waterproof,: Make sure that the lid is tight. 2 taut, stretched, tense, constricting, (too) small, ill-fitting: She was wearing a very tight dress. 3 strict, binding, restrictive, stringent, severe, tough, uncompromising, unyielding, rigorous, stern, austere, autocratic, harsh, hard and fast, inflexible: You can't get away with anything under such tight regulations. I have a tight schedule next week. 4 Chiefly nautical taut, (well-)disciplined, orderly, neat, well-organized, trim, tidy, smart: He runs a tight ship. 5 stingy, niggardly, mean, penurious, miserly, parsimonious, penny-pinching, tight-fisted, close-fisted, Colloq Brit mingy: Glenn is much too tight to buy anyone a drink. 6 close, (almost) even, (highly) competitive, neck and neck, evenly matched: It is going to be a tight race. 7 difficult, trying, dangerous, perilous, risky, hazardous, touchy, problematic, sticky, tricky, ticklish, precarious, touch-and-go: The strike has created a tight situation at the office. 8 tipsy, drunk, intoxicated, Colloq high, woozy, under the influence, Brit tiddly: When I saw her, she was too tight to drive. 9 scarce, scanty, hard to find or come by, rare; dear, expensive: Entrepreneurs have found investment money to be pretty tight this year. --adv. 10 tightly, securely, firmly; closely: Keep this door closed tight. Hold me tight. Her hands were clasped tight in prayer. 11 compactly, densely, solidly, firmly, closely: We were packed so tight in the bus that no one could move.
TIMID|0|adj. shy, retiring, modest, coy, bashful, diffident, timorous, fearful, apprehensive, mousy, scared, frightened, nervous, cowardly, pusillanimous, craven, Colloq chicken-hearted, yellow, yellow-bellied, chicken, chicken-livered, lily-livered, gutless: I knew this strapping marine when he was a timid little boy.
TINNY|0|adj. 1 shabby, flimsy, flimsily or poorly made, shoddy, inferior, cheap, tawdry: He bought himself a tinny old rattletrap of a car. 2 metallic, harsh, twangy: She plays that tinny old trumpet day and night.
TIRED|0|adj. 1 exhausted, tired out, worn out, weary, fatigued, spent, drained, Colloq all in, (dead) beat, knocked out, fagged (out), dog-tired, ready to drop, dead tired, done in, Brit knackered, whacked, US bushed, pooped, wiped out: I was really tired after that ten-hour flight. 2 Usually, tired of. bored with, exasperated by, weary of, irked or irritated or annoyed or bothered by, sick (and tired) of, Colloq fed up (to here) with: Perhaps she's tired of your constant nagging. 3 overworked, overused, clich÷d, stereotyped, stereotypic(al), hackneyed, unimaginative, trite, stale, worn out, unoriginal, commonplace, Colloq bromidic: The gossip columns are filled with the same old tired rubbish day after day.
TITLE|0|n. 1 name: You cannot tell much from a book's title. 2 designation, appellation, epithet: Aubrey is now an earl, but he rarely uses his title. 3 caption, inscription, headline, head, subtitle, legend, subhead, rubric: The title on this picture has nothing to do with its subject. 4 championship, crown: He holds the world heavyweight boxing title. 5 right, interest, privilege, entitlement, ownership, possession, tenure; (title-)deed, documentation of ownership: My aunt has sole title to these lands. --v. 6 name, call, designate, style, label, term, entitle, christen, baptize, nickname, denominate, tag, dub: Harold was titled King of the Revels.
TOAST|0|n. 1 tribute, pledge, salutation(s), greeting(s), felicitations, honour, good wishes, appreciation, remembrance(s), cheers: The speaker proposed a toast to the editor-in-chief. 2 heroine, hero, favourite, darling, idol: Jenny was the toast of the town. --v. 3 pay tribute to, salute, drink to, honour, greet, congratulate, felicitate: We toasted our fallen comrades.
TOKEN|0|n. 1 coin, disc: You need to buy a token to get through the turnstile. 2 symbol, sign, mark, marker, badge, emblem, indication, proof, evidence: The purple trim on a Roman toga was a token of its wearer's elevated status. 3 souvenir, memento, keepsake, reminder, remembrance, Archaic remembrancer: The miniature Statue of Liberty and Eiffel Tower are tokens of our trips abroad. --adj. 4 symbolic, emblematic, representative: The panel was made up of three men and a token woman. 5 superficial, cosmetic, surface, perfunctory, minimal, slight, nominal: We encountered only token resistance when taking over the communications centre.
TONIC|0|n. 1 stimulant, restorative, invigorant, boost, refresher; Obsolete or literary ptisan or tisane, Technical roborant, analeptic, Colloq bracer, pick-me-up, pick-up, shot in the arm, US picker-upper: His father made his money selling snake-oil tonic. --adj. 2 stimulant, stimulating, restorative, invigorating, fortifying, bracing, strengthening, reviving, enlivening, refreshing, Technical analeptic, roborant: Seeing Maddie and Max again had a tonic effect.
TOPIC|0|n. subject(-matter), matter, issue, question, point, thesis, theme, text, keynote, field or area of study or of inquiry: We need to decide on a topic for tonight's discussion.
TOTAL|0|n. 1 sum (total), totality, aggregate, whole, amount, total number: The total of wounded came to only fifteen. --adj. 2 whole, entire, complete, full, gross, overall, comprehensive: Total rainfall in that area is only three inches per annum. 3 complete, unalloyed, unmitigated, unqualified, unconditional, utter, out-and-out, thorough, thoroughgoing, perfect, outright, downright, all-out, absolute: My son is a total failure in everything he attempts. --v. 4 add (up), tot up, sum up, reckon, compute: Please total my bill. 5 amount to, add up to, come to, mount up to: The bill totals twice the amount I paid yesterday.
TOUCH|0|v. 1 put (one's) hand on, feel, handle: She leant forward and touched my hand. 2 bring into contact with, apply, put, set: He touched a match to the fuse and ran. 3 Sometimes, touch (up) against. be in contact (with), border, adjoin, meet, come up or be (up) against, push or press or lean (up) against, brush or rub (up) against, come or be together, abut: The ladder is touching the freshly painted wall. 4 lay a hand or finger on; meddle with, have to do with, interfere with, come near, approach: If you touch me, I'll scream. 5 drink, eat, consume, partake of, take, use, taste, have to do with: He swore that he would never touch alcohol again. 6 affect, impress, influence, disturb, move, stir, arouse, excite, impassion, stimulate, strike, Colloq get to: We were touched by your sympathetic note. 7 rival, match, equal, compare with, come up to, be on a par with, be a match for, be in the same league or class as or with, be on an equal footing with, reach, come or get near or close to, hold a candle to, measure up to or against, Colloq US stack up to or with or against: No other car can touch our new model for speed and safety. 8 Usually, touch on or upon. refer to, have reference to, pertain to, relate to, have a bearing on, regard, mention, allude to, speak or write of, tell of, bring up or in, raise, deal with, cover: I must now touch upon a delicate matter. 9 have access to, access, use, employ, make use of, put to use, avail (oneself) of, take, get, take advantage of: I do not touch the principal, but try to live off the interest. 10 touch down. land, alight, come to earth: We touched down for fuel at Gander, Newfoundland. 11 touch off. a detonate, spark (off), set alight, set off, ignite, light, fire, put a match to: We touched off the gunpowder and blew up the arsenal. b instigate, initiate, begin, start, set in motion, ignite, set off, trigger, provoke, foment, cause, give rise to: Her offhand remark touched off a family row that lasted for years. 12 touch up. r...
TOUGH|0|adj. 1 hard, firm, durable, long-lasting, wear-resistant, substantial, strong, stout, rugged, sturdy, sound, well-built: Only one kind of material is tough enough to endure such conditions for so long. 2 stiff, hard, leathery, inflexible, chewy, fibrous, cartilaginous, sinewy, ropy, wiry, stringy: That steak was as tough as shoe-leather. 3 strong, stalwart, brawny, burly, muscular, powerful, virile, manly, sturdy, doughty, intrepid, stout, rough, vigorous, strapping, athletic: Two tough-looking characters moved towards us, so we left. 4 difficult, demanding, exacting, hard, troublesome; laborious, taxing, strenuous: We deal with tough complaints every day. It's a tough job. 5 baffling, thorny, puzzling, perplexing, mystifying, knotty, irksome, difficult: The examiners asked us some very tough questions. 6 stubborn, hardened, inured, obstinate, obdurate, hard, harsh, severe, stern, inflexible, refractory, intractable, adamant, unyielding, ungiving, rigid, unbending, unsentimental, unfeeling, unsympathetic, callous, hard-boiled, uncaring, cold, cool, icy, stony, Colloq hard-nosed: He's a tough man to work for, but he's fair. --interj. 7 Colloq Too bad!, Tough luck!, Hard luck!, Brit Hard cheese!, Slang Tough titty!, Taboo slang Tough shit!: When I told him that my money had been stolen, he said 'Tough!' --n. 8 bruiser, hooligan, bully (boy), rowdy, thug, ruffian, Colloq roughneck, bruiser, tough guy, gorilla: A couple of toughs who had been threatening the cashier disappeared when they saw our uniforms.
TOWER|0|n. 1 bell-tower, campanile, minaret, pagoda, obelisk; belfry, spire, turret, steeple, flëche: There was a time when the church tower was the tallest building in the town. 2 fortress, citadel, stronghold, castle, fastness; keep, dungeon, prison: The princess was imprisoned in the tower for a year and a day. --v. 3 Often, tower over or above. loom, soar, rise, ascend, rear: These ugly high-rise buildings tower over everything, blocking out the sun.
TRACE|0|n. 1 hint, intimation, sign, token, suggestion, touch, vestige, indication, mark, record, evidence, clue: There wasn't any trace of the intruders. 2 bit, spot, speck, jot, drop, dash, suspicion, remnant, tinge, soupúon, iota, whiff, suggestion, trifle: The traces of mud on the suspect's shoes proved he had been there. 3 Often, traces. track(s), trail, spoor, footprint(s), print(s), footmark(s): They were following the traces of a buffalo. --v. 4 dog, pursue, follow (in the footsteps of), stalk, track (down), shadow, trail, Colloq tail: We traced him to a seedy hotel in Caracas. 5 investigate, discover, ascertain, detect, determine, find, seek, search for, hunt down or up, unearth, track: Have you traced her whereabouts? I am able to trace my ancestry back to the time of the First Crusade. 6 delineate, outline, copy, draw, map, chart, mark (out), record, reproduce, sketch: We traced Marco Polo's route to China and back.
TRACT|0|n. region, area, stretch, territory, expanse, zone, portion, section, sector, quarter, district, patch, plot, parcel, US lot: The developers own a tract of land where they plan to build a shopping mall.
TRADE|0|n. 1 commerce, business, traffic, exchange, barter, dealing(s), buying and selling, merchandising, marketing, mercantilism, truck: Have we any trade in shoes with South Korea? We are establishing trade with Eastern Europe? 2 calling, occupation, pursuit, work, business, employment, line (of work), m÷tier, job, vocation, craft, career, profession: Just what trade are you engaged in? 3 swap or swop, exchange, interchange, barter: Was exchanging your microwave cooker for a hi-fi set a good trade? 4 customers, clientele, custom, patrons, following, patronage, shoppers: Her shop caters chiefly to the holiday trade. --v. 5 transact or do business, buy, sell, deal, traffic, merchandise, have dealings: There are laws against Sunday trading in some areas. 6 exchange, swap or swop, interchange, switch, barter; return: Having traded his car for the boat, Sam has no way of reaching the marina.
TRAIL|0|n. 1 (beaten) path, way, footpath, route, way, track, course: There is a well-worn trail through the wood. 2 track, spoor, scent, smell, trace, footsteps, footprints, path, wake: The trail of the elephant herd was quite easy to follow. 3 See train, 2, below: She was always followed by a trail of admirers. --v. 4 tow, draw, drag (along), haul, pull, tag along, trawl, bring along (behind), carry along (behind): We were moving slowly because we were trailing a dinghy. 5 drag, pull, move, be drawn, stream, sweep, dangle: I heard the whisper of silken gowns trailing across Persian carpets. 6 lag (behind), dawdle, loiter, linger, follow, straggle, bring up the rear, hang back, fall or drop behind: Our team was trailing three-five in the final. 7 follow, pursue, dog, trace, shadow, stalk, track, chase, hunt, Colloq tail: We trailed the suspect to Victoria Station, where we lost him. 8 trail off or away. diminish, decrease, fade away or out, disappear, dwindle, lessen, die out or away, peter out, subside, taper off, weaken, grow faint or dim: As they drove away, the noise of their blasting radio trailed off.
TRAIN|0|n. 1 carriage, coach, Baby-talk choo-choo: Will this train take me to Newcastle? 2 retinue, entourage, cortëge, suite, following, escort, guard, attendants, retainers, followers, trail; staff, court, household: After the duke's coffin came a train of several hundred hangers-on. 3 line, queue, procession, succession, string, set, sequence, chain, progression, caravan, cavalcade, parade, column, file: The baggage train of the advancing army stretched for miles. --v. 4 discipline, exercise, tutor, teach, coach, drill, school, instruct, prepare, educate, edify, guide, bring up, indoctrinate, rear, raise: We had been trained to put things away and avoid clutter. 5 work out, exercise, practise: Hannah is training for the next Olympics.
TRAIT|0|n. feature, characteristic, attribute, quality, peculiarity, idiosyncrasy, quirk, lineament, mark, property: He has some unpleasant traits, like spitting when he talks.
TRAMP|0|v. 1 march, hike, trudge, plod, slog, plough, tread, trek, walk, US mush: I must have tramped across half of England looking for work. 2 Usually, tramp on or upon. See trample, 1, below. --n. 3 march, trudge, plod, slog, trek, hike, walk: Every day we had to make the five-mile tramp into the village for water. 4 derelict, vagabond, vagrant, drifter, rover, gypsy, beachcomber, Brit dosser, down-and-out, Australian swagman, US hobo, bum, down-and-outer: The police do not allow tramps to sleep in public parks. 5 step, tread, footfall, footstep: She couldn't get to sleep until she heard her husband's tramp on the stair.
TRASH|0|n. 1 rubbish, (stuff and) nonsense, balderdash, moonshine, gibberish, gobbledegook or gobbledygook, tommy-rot, bunkum, garbage, twaddle, Colloq rot, flapdoodle, crap, codswallop, bosh, piffle, hooey, bunk, malarkey, poppycock, boloney or baloney, eyewash, hogwash, bilge-water, bull, Scots havers, Brit tosh, gammon, US a crock, hokum, gurry, horse feathers, Slang Brit (a load of (old)) cobblers, Taboo slang bullshit, horseshit, Brit balls, US a crock of shit: Don't believe him - he is talking trash. 2 (Chiefly US and Canadian) junk, brummagem, knick-knacks, gewgaws, trifles, bric-å-brac, frippery or fripperies, bits and pieces, odds and ends, trinkets, tinsel, 'Not Wanted on Voyage': There was mostly trash in the flea market, but there were one or two more valuable items. 3 (In US and Canada) rubbish, litter, garbage, waste, refuse, junk, debris, rubble, dregs, dross, scoria, slag, offscourings, dirt, sweepings, Slang crap: The service comes to remove the trash once a week. --v. 4 Slang chiefly US destroy, ruin, wreck, vandalize, deface: The lodgers trashed the flat before doing a moonlight flit.
TREAT|0|v. 1 handle, manage, behave or act toward(s), deal with; use: Why should we treat female employees any differently? 2 handle, manage, deal with, discuss, touch on or upon, consider, take up, study, examine, explore, investigate, scrutinize, analyse, go into, probe, survey, expound (on), criticize, review, critique: That subject is treated in Chapter VI. 3 nurse, doctor, attend, care for, look after, prescribe for, medicate: He is being treated for gallstones. 4 entertain, take out, pay for, regale, play host to; wine and dine: Our visitors treated us when we went out to dinner yesterday. 5 treat (someone) to (something). pay (the bill) for, buy (something) for: Edward treated us all to ice-cream. --n. 6 favour, gift, present, boon, bonus, premium, Colloq US and Canadian freebie: Put your money away - this is my treat.
TREND|0|n. 1 tendency, leaning, bias, bent, drift, course, inclination, direction: The trend seems to be towards shorter skirts. 2 fashion, style, vogue, mode, look, rage, Colloq fad, craze, thing: Why is she so compulsive about keeping up with the latest trends? --v. 3 tend, lean, be biased, bend, drift, incline, veer, turn, swing, shift, head: At the convention, the party leaders trended more to the left of centre.
TRIAL|0|n. 1 test, testing, experiment, proof, try-out, trying out, trial run, examination, check, checking, Colloq dry run: The trials of the new life-jackets are to be conducted soon. 2 hearing, enquiry or inquiry, examination, inquisition, litigation, judicial proceeding, lawsuit, contest: Throughout the trial, the accused protested his innocence. 3 try, attempt, endeavour, effort, venture, essay, Colloq go, shot, stab, fling, whirl, crack, whack: This was their first trial at climbing the north face. 4 trouble, affliction, tribulation, hardship, adversity, suffering, grief, woe, misery, distress, bad or hard luck, misfortune, hard times: Mona acknowledged the trial of having ten children and no husband. 5 nuisance, irritation, bother, bane, annoyance, pest, irritant, thorn in the flesh or side, US bur or burr under the saddle, Colloq plague, hassle, pain (in the neck), headache, Taboo slang pain in the Brit arse or US ass: William, who is full of mischief, is a constant trial to his mother. --adj. 6 sample, experimental, exploratory, provisional, probationary, tentative, conditional, pilot: Will you consider a trial subscription to Verbatim, The Language Quarterly?
TRIBE|0|n. race, stock, strain, nation, breed, people, seed, (ethnic) group, gens, clan, blood, pedigree, family, sept, dynasty, house; caste, class: It was important in that society to marry someone from the same tribe.
TRICK|0|n. 1 ruse, artifice, device, stratagem, wile, deception, manoeuvre, deceit, fraud, hoax, imposture, intrigue, machination, conspiracy, subterfuge, dodge, confidence trick, sham, Slang con: The government's 'dirty tricks squad' perpetrated crimes against their political adversaries. 2 prank, frolic, antic, (practical) joke, hoax, tomfoolery, antic, caper, jape; sport, horseplay, mischief; Scots cantrip, Colloq leg-pull, gag, shenanigans, US dido: The boys meant no harm, they're just up to their tricks. 3 art, knack, technique, skill, secret, gift, ability, Colloq hang: He has developed the trick of persuading people to buy life insurance. 4 Usually, no mean trick. feat, accomplishment, deed: It was no mean trick to train a cat to fetch his slippers. 5 sleight of hand, legerdemain, magic, stunt: I have taught him all the tricks I know. 6 trait, characteristic, peculiarity, idiosyncrasy, eccentricity, quirk, practice, habit, mannerism, crotchet, weakness, foible: He has an odd trick of winking while giving a sly smile. 7 do the trick. work, answer, fulfil the need, suffice, be effective, solve or take care of the problem, do or accomplish the necessary, US turn the trick, Colloq fill the bill: Replacing the battery cable did the trick. --v. 8 fool, hoodwink, dupe, mislead, outwit, outmanoeuvre, deceive, misguide, misinform, gull, bilk, cheat, defraud, cozen, take in, swindle, humbug, Colloq bamboozle, take, put something over on (someone), pull the wool over (someone's) eyes, Brit gammon, Slang rook: I knew I had been tricked when I missed my wallet. For years the couple made a living tricking tourists out of their money. She tricked me into taking her to dinner. --adj. 9 See tricky, 3, below.
TRUCE|0|n. 1 armistice, cease-fire, suspension of hostilities, lull, moratorium, respite, let-up, intermission, interval, interlude: It looked as if the truce might last. 2 pact, treaty, compact, agreement, cease-fire, armistice: If both sides abide by the truce the war might be over.
TRULY|0|adv. 1 truthfully, actually, really, honestly, in fact, in truth, in actuality, in reality, in all honesty, sincerely, genuinely: Are you truly giving up your job to get married? I truly believed her to be guilty. 2 properly, rightly, rightfully, justly, legitimately, justifiably, duly, well and truly, accurately: In the circumstances, can we truly condemn him for behaving as he did? 3 definitely, really, actually, undoubtedly, indubitably, beyond (the shadow of) a doubt, beyond question, without a doubt, indeed, unquestionably, absolutely, positively, decidedly, certainly, surely: I believed her to be truly guilty. 4 in truth, indeed, really, honestly, sincerely, genuinely, Archaic (yea,) verily, Usually ironic forsooth: I love you, darling, truly I do.
TRUST|0|n. 1 confidence, reliance, faith, conviction, certitude, certainty, sureness, positiveness, assurance, belief: Place your trust in me. 2 credit, reliability, dependability, credibility, trustworthiness: The company will sell you the piano on trust. 3 custody, care, keeping, charge, guardianship, protection, safe keeping, trusteeship: The money is in trust for Gillian's grandchildren. 4 monopoly, cartel; group, corporation, conglomerate: An international trust controls the world market in diamonds. --v. 5 rely (on or upon), have faith or confidence (in), confide (in), depend or bank or count (on or upon), pin (one's) faith or hopes on or upon: I trust that you will attend the meeting. In God we trust - others must pay cash. Can I trust you to keep a secret? Don't trust to luck. 6 entrust, commit, give, delegate, make or turn or sign or hand over, depute, assign, empower, consign: I shouldn't trust my money to her.
TRUTH|0|n. 1 genuineness, reality, actuality, correctness, accuracy, fact: The truth of the matter is that he's in love with you. 2 fact(s): To tell the truth, I came here to kill you. 3 in truth. in fact, truly, actually, really: In truth, his name is not Jack Armstrong at all but Ebenezer Braithwaite.
TUTOR|0|n. 1 teacher, instructor, educator, coach, mentor, guru: Bernard engaged a tutor to coach him through the examinations. --v. 2 teach, instruct, coach, educate, school, train, indoctrinate, drill, enlighten, advise, direct, guide, prepare, ground: Twitchell needs someone to tutor him in the fine art of going out with girls.
TWINE|0|n. 1 cord, string; rope, cable, yarn: Have you some twine for tying up this package? --v. 2 entwine, braid, twist, intertwine, curl, wreathe, spiral, wind, weave, interweave, encircle, wrap: Annette's front door has roses twined all round it.
ULCER|0|n. 1 sore, lesion, abscess, ulceration, canker, chancre, boil, gumboil, eruption, carbuncle, inflammation: That ulcer should be treated before it gets any worse. 2 cancer, canker, festering spot, blight, scourge, poison, disease, pestilence, curse, bane, plague: We must purge this ulcer before it corrupts the entire organization.
ULTRA|0|adj. extreme, immoderate, excessive, drastic, radical, fanatic(al), unmitigated, outrageous, unqualified, sheer, blatant, out-and-out, complete, thorough, thoroughgoing, dyed in the wool, die-hard, rabid, opinionated, unregenerate, unrepentant, unreformed, fundamentalist, prejudiced, bigoted, Colloq hard-nosed: Ultra-conservativism marked his views till the day he died.
UNDER|0|prep. 1 beneath, below, underneath, covered by: What is under that blanket? The wreck lies a mile under the surface. 2 subordinate to, answerable to, inferior to, second to, secondary to, subservient to, below, beneath, underneath, junior to, directed or supervised or controlled by, under (the) control of, at the mercy of, at the beck and call of: The bashibazouks were under the sultan's top officers. 3 included or comprised in or under, subsumed under: This should be under the heading, 'What is the Stupidest Thing you have done Today?' Under which category is 'Software'? 4 under the aegis or protection or eye or guardianship or care of: The prince was trained under the grand vizier. 5 less than, lower than: I paid under ø200 for my VCR. 6 under the influence. drunk, tipsy, high, impaired: The police charged him with driving while under the influence. --adv. 7 below, underneath, beneath: You looked on top of the bed, but have you looked under? 8 underwater, beneath the waves, down, out of sight: We watched helpless as he went under for the third time.
UNION|0|n. 1 uniting, unity, combining, combination, joining, junction, conjoining, conjunction, allying, alliance, associating, association, coalition, amalgamating, amalgamation, fusing, fusion, marrying, marriage, confederating, confederation, confederacy, synthesizing, synthesis, mixing, mixture, federation, togetherness: Monarchies favour the union of Church and State. 2 alliance, association, organization, society, circle, fraternity, club, fellowship, team, ring, gang, syndicate, coalition, party, confederation, confederacy, federation, Bund, league, consortium, bloc, cartel, trust: The countries formed a union to control their joint economies. 3 joint, seam, splice, junction, conjunction, graft, weld; coupling: The union between the two pieces may be stronger than the material itself. 4 agreement, accord, harmony, harmoniousness, congruity, coherence, compatibility, unanimity, unity: The union of the various elements in the painting was skilfully effected.
UNITE|0|v. 1 combine, unify, merge, coalesce, amalgamate, mix, mingle, commingle, intermix, blend, consolidate, fuse: The splinter parties have united to form a coalition. 2 join (forces), unify, wed, marry, link, connect, merge: The two families are united by marriage. 3 bond, fuse or weld or solder or glue or stick or tie or bind or fasten or fix or fit (together): Unite these pieces and the job is done.
UNITY|0|n. 1 consistency, unanimity, constancy, uniformity, sameness, consensus, agreement, concord, concordance, accord, solidarity, compatibility, concurrence, continuity, consentaneousness, rapport, sympathy, like-mindedness: All members of the association enjoy a unity of purpose. 2 oneness, singularity, integrity, singleness, congruity, uniformity, congruousness, homogeneity, identity, sameness, resemblance, likeness, similarity, similitude: If there is little unity between your ideas and those of the organization, perhaps you should resign. 3 unification, uniting, combination: In unity is strength.
UPPER|0|adj. 1 higher (up), loftier, topmost, more elevated, uppermost: Air is less dense in the upper parts of the atmosphere. Our flat is on an upper floor. Her best notes are sung in the upper register. 2 higher, upland, more elevated; (more) northerly, northern: We visited the cataracts on the upper reaches of the Nile. We spent the holiday in upper Canada. 3 later, more recent: These strata were laid down in the Upper Cretaceous period. 4 upper case. capital letter(s), capital(s), majuscule (letters or characters): The heading ought to be in upper case. 5 upper crust. upper class, ÷lite, aristocrats, nobles, blue bloods, wealthy, US Four Hundred: Gregory thinks of himself as a member of the upper crust and won't associate with us. 6 upper hand. advantage, control, authority, power, sway, superiority, supremacy, command, dominance, ascendancy, Colloq edge: Purvis kowtows to whoever has the upper hand. --n. 7 on (one's) uppers. poor, indigent, destitute, poverty-stricken, Colloq broke: Stanley has been on his uppers since losing his job.
UPSET|0|v. 1 disturb, agitate, distress, unsettle, put off, put out, perturb, disquiet, fluster, ruffle, frighten, scare, disconcert, dismay, trouble, worry, bother, discompose, make (someone) nervous: We once had a nanny who told the children horror stories just to upset them. 2 overturn, capsize, topple, up-end, tip over, knock over or down, invert, turn topsy-turvy or upside down, spill: That is the third time this week you have upset the cream jug. 3 disturb, derange, disrupt, disarrange, mess up, disorganize, snarl up, jumble, muddle, Colloq Brit kerfuffle or carfuffle or kurfuffle: The boys upset the entire house with their horseplay. 4 overthrow, defeat, beat, worst, thrash, rout, conquer, overcome, win out over, get the better of, get or gain the advantage over, triumph over, be victorious over, vanquish: The question is whether the challenger will upset the champion in the Wimbledon finals. 5 defeat, ruin, spoil, thwart, interfere with, destroy, demolish, mess up, disturb, Colloq throw a Brit spanner in(to) or US monkey wrench into (the works), US discombobulate, Slang screw up, gum up, put the kibosh on, Taboo slang fuck up , Brit bugger up: Your coming early upset my plan to shampoo my hair. --adj. 6 capsized, overturned, upside down, bottom side up, inverted, reversed, toppled, tipped over, topsy-turvy: We clung to the bottom of the upset boat till help arrived. 7 sick, queasy: Eve has an upset stomach and cannot go. 8 perturbed, disturbed, disquieted, disconcerted, agitated, distressed, worried, troubled, unnerved, distracted, apprehensive, nervous, frightened, scared, afraid: We found Valdimir in a terribly upset state at Natasha's disappearance. 9 disordered, confused, disorganized, messed-up, jumbled, muddled, disturbed, disarranged: The house is never so upset as after a party. 10 angry, irate, furious, beside oneself, mad, Colloq fit to be tied, Slang freaked out: Father was upset because I took the car without his permission. --n. 11 defeat, upsetting, co...
USAGE|0|n. 1 use, custom, habit, practice, routine, convention, form, tradition: British usage reflects decreasing use of the subjunctive mood. 2 treatment, use, management, handling, operation, manipulation: It would appear that the car has been subjected to some rough usage.
USUAL|0|adj. same, customary, habitual, accustomed, familiar, well-known, common, everyday, established, traditional, set, time-honoured, old, conventional, workaday, stock, wonted, regular, ordinary, normal, expected, routine, typical, run-of-the-mill, stereotypic(al), hackneyed, trite, prosaic, worn out, shop-worn, predictable, unexceptional, unoriginal, unremarkable, unimaginative: The usual answer I get is 'Why?' I missed my usual train this morning. They still sing the usual drinking songs.
VAGUE|0|adj. 1 indefinite, indistinct, imprecise, inexact, unclear, confused, unspecified or non-specified, general, generalized, unspecific or non-specific, inexplicit or unexplicit, ill-defined, hazy, fuzzy, ambiguous, obscure, amorphous; shapeless, blurred, blurry, filmy, dim, shadowy, veiled, bleary, foggy, misty, cloudy, clouded, hardly or barely distinguishable or discernible: I have only a vague recollection of our having met. She must have had a vague idea of your intentions. Leon could almost make out the vague shape of an approaching figure. 2 undetermined, indeterminate, unfixed, indefinite, inexact, unspecified or non-specified, unspecific or non-specific, ambiguous, doubtful, in doubt, uncertain, equivocal, ambiguous: For security reasons, her time of arrival was left vague. 3 veiled, concealed, hidden, shrouded, obscure, ill-defined, unspecific or non-specific, inexplicit or unexplicit, ambiguous: There had been a vague threat of kidnapping, which should not have been ignored. 4 subliminal, subconscious, indefinable, unexplained: I had a vague sensation of being followed. 5 indefinite, ambiguous, wishy-washy, undecided, indecisive, irresolute, vacillating, wavering, inconstant, unsettled, uncertain, nebulous, up in the air: Leonore is vague about her plans to run for re-election. 6 vacant, empty, blank, expressionless, empty, vacuous, dull; puzzled: By their vague expressions I could see they hadn't understood a word.
VENAL|0|adj. corrupt, corruptible, bribable or bribeable, buyable, purchasable, mercenary, unprincipled, dishonourable, rapacious, avaricious, greedy, simoniacal, Colloq crooked, Slang bent: All we had to do was to find a venal official, cross his palm with silver, and they would release our son.
VENOM|0|n. 1 poison, toxin: The snakes are 'milked' of their venom, which is collected for research in antitoxins and pharmaceuticals. 2 malice, maliciousness, malevolence, ill will, malignity, animosity, hate, hatred, hostility, antagonism, spite, spitefulness, spleen, rancour, bitterness, embitteredness, gall, poison, poisonousness, virulence: Vinnie was totally unprepared for the venom of the attack.
VERGE|0|n. 1 edge, border, boundary, margin, brink, threshold, brim: Frances is jealous of John to the verge of insanity. 2 on the verge of. about to, ready to, on the (very) point of, preparing to, soon to: Many smaller companies are on the verge of bankruptcy. --v. 3 Often, verge on. border (on), approach, come close or near (to), Technical be asymptotic to: Cathy's idea of comfort verges on what is more commonly thought of as luxury. Her charitable contributions last year verged on zero.
VERVE|0|n. spirit, vivacity, vivaciousness, vitality, life, liveliness, animation, sparkle, energy, vigour, exuberance, briskness, brio, esprit, ÷lan, dash, flair, panache, flourish, enthusiasm, zeal, zest, gusto, Colloq pizazz, zip, vim, get-up-and-go, zing, oomph: Helen's verve adds much to this production of Carmen .
VIBES|0|n.pl. vibrations, feelings, sensations, resonance(s), rapport, empathy, sympathy: I felt the place had really good vibes the minute I walked in.
VISIT|0|v. 1 (go or come to) see, call (in or on or upon), look in on, stop in or by, Colloq pop in or by, drop in (on), take in: I plan to visit Leslie. Did you visit the Smithsonian Institution? 2 afflict, attack, befall, fall upon, assail, seize, smite, scourge, descend upon, inflict, affect: Horrible diseases and tortures were said to visit those who denied God. --n. 3 stay, call, sojourn, stop, stopover: The minister will be here for only a brief visit.
VITAL|0|adj. 1 imperative, essential, necessary, needed, requisite, required, indispensable, mandatory, compulsory, cardinal, fundamental, basic, critical, crucial, central, pivotal: Air and water are vital for the existence of most known organisms. 2 important, key, central, critical, crucial, life-and-death or life-or-death, pivotal, paramount, main: In an emergency, the captain must make the vital decision whether to abandon ship. This is a matter of vital concern for us all. 3 lively, full of life, vivacious, spirited, vigorous, dynamic, alive, animated, brisk, energetic: We have lost a vital member of the community. She took a vital interest in community affairs. 4 invigorating, quickening, life-giving, animating, vitalizing, reviving, vivifying, enlivening, rejuvenating: I could feel the vital energies returning to my limbs.
VOGUE|0|n. 1 fashion, mode, style, look, taste, trend, rage, craze, last word, dernier cri, (latest) thing, Colloq fad, the latest: Black leather boots were in vogue once again. 2 popularity, favour, preference, acceptance, currency, prevalence, fashionableness: They are capitalizing on the vogue for torn jeans.
VOICE|0|n. 1 speech, utterance, articulation, words, expression: Keith found it difficult to give voice to his innermost thoughts. 2 share, part, vote, participation, say, decision, option, turn, chance: As a junior member of the board, Nicholas had no voice in major decisions. 3 spokesman, spokeswoman, spokesperson, representative, agent, agency, instrument; organ, medium, vehicle, forum, publication: Throughout his time in government, Logan had served as the voice of the miners. The Clarion views itself as the voice of all the people, though it actually represents only a few. --v. 4 express, utter, articulate, enunciate, present, verbalize, put into words, give utterance or voice or expression or vent to, communicate, convey, declare, assert, make known, reveal, disclose, raise, bring up, air: I must voice my misgivings about the step you are planning to take.
VOMIT|0|v. spew out or up, spit up, belch forth; regurgitate, throw up, gag, retch, heave, US keck, Colloq puke, return (food), Brit sick up, Slang chiefly Australian chunder, US barf, upchuck, toss (one's) cookies, spiff (one's) biscuits: The ancient steam engine vomited smoke and cinders from its huge stack. The very thought of going on a sea voyage almost made me vomit.
WAIVE|0|v. 1 give up, relinquish, renounce, resign, forsake, forgo, cede, sign away, surrender, abandon, yield, dispense with: I waived my right to the inheritance in favour of my daughters. 2 set or put aside, except, ignore, disregard, overlook, abandon, defer, postpone: We are happy to waive the rules in your case, madam.
WARES|0|n.pl. merchandise, goods, commodities, manufactures, produce, stock-(in-trade), supplies, lines: A blind man peddled his wares on this corner for twenty years.
WASTE|0|v. 1 squander, misuse, throw away, fritter away, misspend, splurge, dissipate, Slang blow: Why I wasted so much time on him I'll never know. Don't waste your money on such frivolities. 2 Often, waste away. diminish, deteriorate, dwindle, decline, decay, atrophy, wither, shrink, weaken, become debilitated, fade, become enervated or enfeebled, regress, ebb, sink: She is just wasting away, and I am seriously worried that she may not recover. 3 enervate, enfeeble, emaciate, gnaw, destroy, consume, debilitate, exhaust, disable: Arkwright contracted a terrible wasting disease while in the tropics. 4 assassinate, murder, kill, Slang put away, rub out, US ice: Don't worry, Boss, we'll waste Andy and you won't have no more trouble. --n. 5 misuse, misapplication, squandering, dissipation, misemployment, abuse, neglect: What a terrible waste of talent to have such a person doing such lowly work! Do not let that genius go to waste. 6 wasting, extravagance, prodigality, wastefulness, squandering, indulgence, lavishness, profligacy, dissoluteness, improvidence, overindulgence: Government waste is one of our biggest problems. 7 refuse, rubbish, garbage, dregs, debris, leavings, scrap, offscourings, sweepings, litter, Archaic orts, US and Canadian trash: Techniques are being developed to process the waste in order to avoid using landfills, incineration, or dumping at sea. 8 wasteland, desert, wilderness, barrens, wilds, emptiness, vastness: Beyond that system were vast wastes of uninhabited space. --adj. 9 extra, leftover, unused, superfluous, worthless, useless: The waste food was usually fed to the animals. 10 barren, unproductive, unusable, unsalvageable, useless, unrecyclable, unprofitable, worthless: The waste products of manufacture are a big problem. 11 lay waste. devastate, destroy, demolish, despoil, ruin, wreck, ravage, pillage, sack, plunder, loot, rob, strip, spoil, gut, ransack, wreak havoc (up)on, crush, raze, annihilate, eradicate, extirpate, wipe out: These lands an...
WATCH|0|v. 1 observe, regard, look at, gaze at or on, take in, contemplate: Daniel loves to watch the bears at the zoo. 2 look after, tend, mind, keep an eye on, watch over, mind, guard, care for, take care of, safeguard, protect, shield, keep safe, supervise, superintend; chaperon, accompany, attend; Colloq babysit (for), sit (with): Could you please watch Suzie while I go shopping? 3 observe, note, notice, make or take note of, see, pay attention (to), attend (to), follow, (take) heed (of), examine, inspect, scrutinize, pore over; eye, peer at; ogle, make eyes at: Watch the way I bone this fish. Ted enjoys watching the girls going by. 4 Often, watch (out) for. look for, be on the watch or lookout or alert or qui vive (for), guard (against), keep an eye open (for), be watchful (for), note, take note or notice of, be vigilant (for or of), keep (one's) eyes open (for), keep a (sharp) lookout (for), be prepared or ready for, be careful of, anticipate, await, wait (for), look for, Colloq keep (one's) eyes peeled or skinned (for), keep a weather eye open (for): We were watching for irregularities in the test results. Watch where you're going! Watch out for that last step! --n. 5 vigil, surveillance, observation, lookout: Our six-hour watch was rewarded by the appearance of a yellow-bellied sapsucker. 6 clock, timepiece, pocket watch, wrist-watch; chronometer: I always set my watch by the GMT time signal on the radio. 7 sentry, sentinel, guard, watchman: The midnight watch just returned from his rounds. 8 on the watch (for). on the alert (for), on the lookout (for), on (one's) guard (for), on the qui vive (for), alert (for or to), awake (to), observant (of), watchful (of), cautious (of), wary (of), vigilant, circumspect: We remained on the watch for the slightest movement in the bushes.
WATER|0|n. 1 H2O; distilled water, tap water, drinking-water, bottled water, spa water, still water, soda (water), effervescent water, mineral water; sea water, salt water; ditch-water, dishwater, bath-water, US branch water, Facetious Adam's ale, Technical or Latin aqua; Technical heavy water or deuterium oxide or D2O; Brit fizzy water: Pure water is odourless, tasteless, and colourless. 2 not hold water. be illogical or unsound or invalid, not be sensible, be inconsistent, not make sense, be unbelievable or incredible, be indefensible, be unfeasible or unworkable, not work, not function, not hold up under or bear scrutiny or examination, not ring true, ring false, Colloq not wash: Her account of her whereabouts that day just doesn't hold water. 3 like water. lavishly, extravagantly, freely, wastefully, profligately, open-handedly, liberally, excessively, copiously, unstintingly, unreservedly: They've been spending money like water since they won the football pools. 4 make water. urinate, pass water, Colloq pee, piss: When a dog makes water, it marks off a territory bounded by its scent. 5 of the first water. of superior or excellent or first or top or A-one or the finest or the highest or the best quality or grade; first-grade, top-grade: These were not industrial stones but diamonds of the first water. --v. 6 inundate, flood, drench, saturate, soak, douse, irrigate, hose, wet, shower, splash, spray, sprinkle, moisten, damp, dampen, bedew: If you don't water the garden, the vegetables will die. 7 Often, water down. dilute, weaken, thin out, adulterate; cut; mollify, modify, soften, tone down, qualify: We no longer go there because they water the drinks. They told the children a watered-down version of what had happened.
WEAVE|0|v. 1 loom; braid, plait, entwine, intertwine, interlace, interweave, knit (together): These fabrics were woven by hand. Weave these leather strands together to make a belt. 2 blend, combine, fuse, merge, unite, intermingle, mesh, splice, dovetail, join: The threads of their lives are inextricably woven together. 3 construct, make, contrive, build, create, fabricate, compose, spin, design: Oh, what a tangled web we weave When first we practise to deceive! 4 zigzag, criss-cross, wend or make (one's) way, dodge, bob and weave, shift: Look at that motor cyclist weaving in and out of the traffic! 5 get weaving. get started, get a move on, hurry (up), start, Colloq shake a leg, Brit get or pull (one's) finger out, Chiefly US get a wiggle on: If you're going to get to work on time, you'd best get weaving.
WEIGH|0|v. 1 Sometimes, weigh in at or out at. Colloq tip the scales at: The sailboard weighed in at 250 pounds. I weigh more than I should. 2 consider, ponder, contemplate, think on or over or about, mull over, turn over in the or (one's) mind, ruminate over, chew over, reflect on or upon, brood over, pore over, study, examine: After weighing the qualifications of the candidates, we voted for you. Weigh your words carefully before responding. 3 judge, estimate, assess, evaluate, value, determine: It is not easy to weigh each person's contribution to the effort. 4 Usually, weigh on or upon. lie heavy on, burden, depress, prey on, oppress, disturb, perturb, upset: Loneliness weighs heavily on Dave's widow. 5 matter, count, have (an) effect or influence, carry weight, be of value or account, Colloq cut any ice: Certain factors - like the sizes of the bribes - are likely to weigh heavily with the judges of this particular beauty contest. 6 weigh down. burden, overburden, load, overload, encumber, tax, overtax, strain, trouble, worry, depress, oppress: He's been weighed down by financial worries since losing his job.
WEIRD|0|adj. strange, odd, peculiar, bizarre, unnatural, eerie, queer, grotesque, freakish, outlandish, uncanny, unearthly, other-worldly, supernatural, preternatural, Literary eldritch, Colloq spooky, freaky, kinky, Slang far-out, way-out: There was something decidedly weird about the creature at the door.
WHEEL|0|n. 1 disc, ring, annulus, circle, hoop: It seems odd that no culture in the western hemisphere ever invented the wheel. --v. 2 spin, turn, veer, swivel, pivot, swing, whirl: Medusa wheeled to face him and he promptly turned to stone.
WHISK|0|v. 1 rush, dart, sweep, brush: Agatha whisked about the room, aimlessly moving small objects about on tables and shelves. 2 speed, rush, carry, whip, hasten, hustle, hurry: The taxi came and whisked Fran off to the airport. 3 See whip, 4, above. --n. 4 sweep, wave, brush, flick: With a whisk of his hand he dismissed the servants. 5 brush, fly-whisk: The chief flicked his whisk to signal that the audience was ended. 6 beater, whip: It is quicker to whip cream with a whisk.
WHITE|0|adj. 1 snow-white, snowy, chalk-white, chalky, ivory, creamy, milky, milk-white, oyster-white, off-white; silver, hoary: Many buildings in the tropics are painted white. Do you believe that a person's hair can turn white overnight? 2 pale, pallid, pasty, wan, whey-faced, ashen, bloodless, drained, whitish, waxen, ghastly, ghostly, anaemic, dead white, deathly white, cadaverous, corpse-like: Her black dress contrasted starkly with her white complexion. 3 innocent, pure, unsullied, stainless, unblemished, spotless, immaculate, virginal, virtuous, undefiled, chaste: She came to you with white hands, which you have sought to dirty with your vicious accusations. 4 Caucasian, Caucasoid, light-skinned, fair-skinned, pale-complexioned: The American Indian was - and still is - treated very unfairly by the White man.
WHOLE|0|adj. 1 entire, complete, uncut, full, intact, unbroken, total: I can't believe she ate the whole chicken. Were you here the whole time? 2 in one piece, intact, unharmed, undamaged, unscathed, unimpaired, unhurt, uninjured: How could anyone emerge whole from that smash-up? 3 well, healthy, sound, fit, strong: The surgeons have made him whole again. --n. 4 everything, aggregate, (sum) total, totality, lot, entirety; ensemble; Colloq whole kit and caboodle: I look at the whole and don't bother about petty details. 5 on the whole. largely, mostly, usually, more often than not, for the most part, in general, generally, by and large, with few exceptions, all things considered, all in all, as a rule, chiefly, mainly, in the main, predominantly: On the whole, our clients collect only originals, not copies or prints.
WIDEN|0|v. distend, dilate, spread, stretch, enlarge, increase, expand; extend, broaden, supplement, add to, augment: It will be necessary to widen the opening to allow insertion of the device. We are planning to widen the news coverage we provide our readers.
WIDTH|0|n. 1 breadth, wideness, compass, broadness, span; diameter, calibre, bore; measure; Nautical beam: What is the standard width of railway track in this country? The width of the cannon-ball is three inches. 2 reach, scope, range, breadth, extent, extensiveness: There is an impressive width of choice at the restaurant.
WIELD|0|v. 1 flourish, swing, brandish, wave, handle, use, employ: He wields that machete as if he means business. 2 exercise, have, employ, exert, use, utilize: Since Juan is the one who wields the power, he is the one to deal with.
WINDY|0|adj. 1 blustery, blowing, blowy, breezy, gusting, gusty, wild, squally, tempestuous; windswept: It is quite windy today. I waited at that windy corner for you and you never showed up! 2 talkative, long-winded, garrulous, wordy, verbose, prolix, loquacious, rambling, voluble, fluent, effusive, glib, turgid, bombastic, pompous, longiloquent: Potter does tend to be windy at times.
WITCH|0|n. 1 sorceress, enchantress, magician, sibyl, pythoness; warlock: The witches prophesied that Macbeth would be king. 2 hag, fury, battleaxe, crone, gorgon, Medusa, ogress, Xanthippe, shrew, virago, harridan, fishwife, termagant, Archaic beldam or beldame, Offensive old bag, bitch: How could you stand living with the old witch for so many years?
WOMAN|0|n. 1 female, lady; girl: Elvira was the first woman to be elected to the board. 2 wife, spouse, bride, lady-love, sweetheart, lady, girl, girlfriend, mistress, concubine, mate, helpmeet, helpmate, partner, Colloq sweetie, better half, little woman, the missis or missus, old lady or woman, ball and chain, Slang trouble and strife: In this scene, Porgy tells Bess that she is his woman, now and forever. 3 lass, maid, maiden, miss, lassie, Slang gal, dame, bird, skirt, chick, bit of fluff, broad, piece (of work), number, baggage, moll, popsy: The soldiers went into town to try to find some women for an evening's entertainment. 4 domestic, housekeeper, maid, cleaning woman or lady, maidservant, chambermaid, handmaiden, abigail, lady-in-waiting, Brit charwoman, Colloq Brit char, daily: They have a woman who comes in every other day.
WORDY|0|adj. verbose, prolix, rambling, long-winded; pleonastic, redundant, garrulous, windy, talkative, loquacious: This contract is too wordy and could be cut to two pages. Try to make your replies less wordy.
WORLD|0|n. 1 earth, planet, sphere, globe, Terra; universe, cosmos, existence, creation, life: Do you believe the world is round? Buckland lives in his own, private world. 2 humanity, mankind, people, the human race, society, the public, men, humankind, everybody, everyone, the world at large: We know what he thinks of the world, but what does the world think of him? 3 area, sphere, domain, community, clique, crowd, circle, fraternity, faction, set, coterie: What value does the art world place on Longchamps' paintings? 4 period, time, age, era, epoch, time(s): They have produced an excellent series of programmes on the ancient world. 5 bring into the world. a deliver, have, give birth to, beget, Rare or dialect birth: Grandmother brought sixteen children into the world. b deliver, midwife: The town family doctor brought hundreds of children into the world in his long career. 6 for all the world. precisely, exactly, in all respects, in every respect, in every way, just: He behaved for all the world like a man possessed by the devil. 7 on top of the world. ecstatic, delighted, elated, happy, exultant, overjoyed, rapturous, Brit in the seventh heaven, US in seventh heaven, Colloq on cloud nine, Brit over the moon: George has been on top of the world ever since Prudence agreed to marry him. 8 out of this world. marvellous, wonderful, exceptional, unbelievable, incredible, excellent, superb, Colloq great, smashing, fantastic, fabulous, Slang out of sight, far-out, Brit magic, US to the max: The place we stayed at Ibiza was out of this world!
WORRY|0|v. 1 be anxious, be fearful, be concerned, fret, agonize, be distressed, be vexed, Colloq stew, bite or chew (one's) nails, go or get grey, get grey hair, Slang sweat blood, US sweat bullets: I worry about you when you stay out so late. 2 annoy, irk, pester, nettle, harry, harass, tease, bother, tantalize, torment, plague, hector, badger, nettle, gall, peeve, Colloq hassle: The police have been worrying me the way a dog worries a bone. --n. 3 concern, care, responsibility; problem, bother, trouble, affliction, irritation, annoyance, vexation: I cannot see why that is your worry. I am sorry to hear about your financial worries. 4 anguish, anxiety, uneasiness, unease, nervousness, distress, apprehension, disquiet, perturbation, agitation, upset, misgiving: Your association with that crowd has caused your mother and me a great deal of worry.
WORTH|0|n. quality, merit, value, advantage, benefit, good, importance, significance, usefulness: You have underestimated Roberta's worth to the community.
WOUND|0|n. 1 damage, hurt, injury, trauma, traumatism; laceration, puncture, cut, gash, slash, lesion, bruise, contusion: We dressed and bandaged the wounds of the victims. 2 slight, damage, injury, harm, blow, distress, mortification, torment, torture, anguish, pain, insult: Hugh takes the slightest criticism as a deep wound to his self-esteem. --v. 3 damage, harm, injure, hurt, traumatize; cut, slash, gash, lacerate, slit, stab, shoot, Colloq wing: He was wounded in the leg in the war. 4 slight, distress, damage, mortify, insult, hurt, pain, grieve, offend, aggrieve, wrong: I was terribly wounded by the things she said about me.
WREAK|0|v. inflict, exercise, exert, carry out, bring (to bear), visit, effect, work, unleash, execute, impose, force, vent, let go: The tribesmen wreaked vengeance on the hill people for destroying their farms.
WRECK|0|v. 1 destroy, ruin, devastate, demolish, smash, shatter, spoil, dash (to pieces), reduce to nothing, turn into scrap, annihilate: He drove my motor-bike into a tree and wrecked it. 2 sink, scuttle, run aground, founder, capsize: The ship was wrecked on a reef near Rarotonga. --n. 3 hulk, shipwreck, ruins: The wreck finally rusted away to nothing. 4 mess, disaster, ruin; havoc: That man made a wreck of her life. 5 destruction, loss, sinking, devastation, foundering, grounding, capsize, capsizing, disabling, disablement, wrecking; demolition, demolishing, levelling, tearing down, razing, pulling down, obliteration: The wreck of the Titanic was a major news event in 1912. The wreck of the old tower block is scheduled for next month.
WRITE|0|v. 1 pen, scribble, get off, dash off; indite, inscribe, make out: I was writing you a note when you phoned. She wrote out a cheque for ø1000. 2 correspond (with), send a letter or a note or a postcard or US also a postal card, communicate (with): You don't write home often enough. Write and let me know when you get a job. 3 compose, create, make up, author: We saw the house in which Elgar wrote the 'Enigma' Variations. 4 write down. a register, list, catalogue, note, make a note or notation, record, transcribe, set or jot or take down, note, put in writing, put in black and white: The teacher was known for Irish bulls like, 'All absent students must write down their names'. b derogate, decry, disparage, put down, minimize, make little of, play down, detract, belittle: Cumberland's contributions have been written down by his critics. 5 write off. delete, cancel, disregard, ignore, forgive, forget (about), annul, eradicate, erase: The bad debts have been written off.
WRONG|0|adj. 1 improper, unjust, unfair, injudicious, unethical, terrible, foul, awful, bad, immoral, sinful, evil, iniquitous, villainous, wicked, vile, diabolic(al), infernal, fiendish, corrupt, dishonest, reprehensible, abominable, dreadful, dishonourable, blameworthy, naughty, shameful, disgraceful, opprobrious, criminal, felonious, illegal, illicit, unlawful, illegitimate, Colloq crooked: They believe that all war is wrong. It was wrong of you to come here while my husband was away. 2 mistaken, in error, erroneous, incorrect, inaccurate, imprecise, inexact, fallacious, askew, false, wide of the mark; strange, odd, peculiar, curious; Colloq off target or US also off the target, Brit off beam, US off the beam: The answers to these four questions were all wrong. You certainly have some wrong ideas about me. 3 incorrect, improper, unsuitable: They must have given us the wrong baby at the hospital. 4 inappropriate, inapt, improper, indecorous, unseemly, unfitting, unacceptable, undesirable, incongruous, unbecoming, out of place, ill-considered, wrong-headed, imprudent, misguided, inexpedient, impolitic, infelicitous, Colloq out of line: You saw nothing wrong in inviting girls to stay with you in your rooms? Your mother thinks she's the wrong girl for you. 5 out of order, not working, faulty, awry, amiss, the matter, defective, imperfect, unsound, flawed, deficient: Considering the noise my car makes, there must be something wrong. 6 opposite, reverse, incorrect, improper: That is the wrong direction to the post office. --adv. 7 awry, imperfectly, incorrectly, improperly, inappropriately, amiss, badly, wrongly, Scots and No. Eng. and literary agley, Colloq out of sync: You've wired up the video all wrong. 8 go wrong. a go astray, falter, fail, lapse, err, fall from grace, go to the bad, deteriorate, go downhill, backslide, regress, retrogress, recidivate: Her father was convinced that she would go wrong if she went into the theatre. b fail, malfunction, break down, miscarry,...
YEARN|0|v. long, pine, ache, hanker, itch, hunger, thirst, crave, have a craving, desire, wish, want, fancy, prefer: I yearn to see the green-clad hills of home once more, Before my vessel bears me from this mortal shore.
YIELD|0|v. 1 surrender, give up (the fight or struggle), give in, knuckle under, submit, cede, cry quits, throw in the towel or the sponge, capitulate, succumb, raise the white flag: The captain of the enemy company asked if we would yield. 2 give up, surrender, give over, hand in or over, abandon, relinquish, renounce, cede: We agreed to yield our arms to the enemy. 3 agree, consent, comply, concede, relent, assent, give way, accede, concur: He did his best to persuade me, and I finally yielded. 4 earn, return, pay, bring in, supply, generate, produce, net: She has investments that yield more than 15% a year. --n. 5 return, production, output, revenue, takings, gate, earnings, income, proceeds, profit, gain: The yield from that operation is not even enough to pay the rent.
YOUNG|0|adj. 1 youthful, teenage(d), adolescent, prepubescent, pubescent, juvenile, minor, junior, under age: Would you believe that she has young children? 2 boyish, girlish; immature, callow, green, inexperienced, unfledged, uninitiated, unsophisticated, childlike, innocent, naìve: This programme may contain material unsuitable for young ears. 3 childish, puerile, infantile, babyish, US sophomoric: He's too young to invite to the party. --n. 4 offspring, babies, issue, little ones, progeny, litter, brood; children: The cat's young should stay with her for a few weeks.
YOUTH|0|n. 1 childhood, boyhood, girlhood, young manhood, young womanhood, prepubescence, pubescence, adolescence, salad days; immaturity, minority: In our youth we do many foolish things we might later regret. 2 child, youngster, schoolchild, teenager, teen, minor, juvenile, adolescent; boy, schoolboy, stripling, young boy or man, lad, laddie, whippersnapper; girl, lass, lassie, schoolgirl, maid, maiden, Literary damsel, demoiselle, mademoiselle, Colloq kid, (little) shaver, US and Canadian tad, Slang teeny-bopper, Brit sprog: As youths, they used to spend time at rock concerts. 3 children, youngsters, juveniles, adolescents, young people, young, Colloq kids: The youth of today have little respect for their elders.
ABET|0|v. 1 encourage, urge, instigate, incite, provoke, egg on, prod, goad; aid, help, assist: The jury found that his wife had abetted him in the murder. 2 countenance, approve (of), support, endorse, second, sanction, condone; further, advance, promote, uphold: By failing to inform on the terrorists, the neighbours abetted the bombing.
ABLE|0|adj. 1 capable, qualified, competent, proficient: I feel quite able to take care of myself, thank you. He is an able tennis player. 2 talented, clever, skilled, masterful, masterly; adept, skilful, gifted, superior, expert, accomplished: There is no doubt that Wellington was a very able general.
ACHE|0|v. 1 pain, hurt, smart, throb, pound; sting: My jaw has been aching since that tooth was extracted. 2 yearn, long, hunger, hanker, pine; crave: A hostage for a year, he was aching to see his wife and children. --n. 3 pain, pang, throbbing, pounding, smarting, soreness: I have had this ache in my back, Doctor, and I can't stand up straight. 4 pang, pain; distress; longing: There's been an ache in my heart, my darling, ever since you went away.
ACME|0|n. peak, apex, top, summit, pinnacle, zenith; climax, culmination: Roger has reached the acme of perfection as a diamond-cutter.
AGED|0|adj. old, elderly, superannuated, ancient, age-old, grey, venerable: The three aged women crouched in their chairs, each with her own memories.
AIDE|0|n. aide-de-camp, assistant, helper, coadjutor; good or strong right arm, right hand, right-hand man; colleague, partner, ally, comrade, comrade-in-arms, US cohort , Colloq man Friday, girl Friday, US gal Friday: The general's aides are always at his side.
AKIN|0|adj. Usually, akin to. related (to), allied or connected or affiliated (to or with), associated (with), germane (to), like, alike, similar (to): Desultoriness is akin to indolence. Their decision not to show the film smacks of something akin to censorship.
ALLY|0|n. 1 comrade, confederate, collaborator, coadjutor; accessory, accomplice; associate, partner, friend: I had hoped to have you as an ally in my proposal for reorganization. The Allies finally defeated the Nazi war machine in 1945. --v. 2 league, combine, unite, join (up), team (up), side, band together, associate, affiliate, collaborate, confederate: In their attempt at a take-over of our company, the raiders have allied themselves with two banks. We shall ally the Romans to us and conquer the territory.
AMID|0|prep. mid, in or into the middle or midst or centre of, amongst, among, surrounded by, in the thick of, Literary amidst: She is sitting in her cottage, Amid the flowers of May. Without further ado, she plunged amid the waves.
ARCH|0|adj. 1 chief, principal, prime, primary, pre-eminent, foremost, first, greatest, consummate, major: Moriarty was Holmes's arch-enemy. 2 clever, cunning, crafty, roguish, tricky, shrewd, artful, sly, designing: Brendan loves to play his arch pranks on unsuspecting friends. 3 waggish, saucy, mischievous, prankish: I could tell from the lad's arch expression that he had thrown the snowball.
AREA|0|n. 1 space, room: Is there enough floor area here for the carpet? 2 extent, limit, compass, size, square footage, acreage: The area of my greenhouse is thirty by fifteen feet. 3 space, field, region, tract, territory, district, zone, stretch; section, quarter, precinct, arrondissement, neighbourhood, locality, bailiwick, US block: An area was set aside for a garden. There has been a lot of crime in that area lately. 4 scope, range, extent, breadth, compass, section: His studies cover only one area of Scottish history. 5 court, courtyard, enclosure, close, yard; square, ground, arena, field, parade-ground, parade: The soldiers drill in the area behind the barracks.
AURA|0|n. air, atmosphere, feeling, ambience or ambiance, spirit, character, quality, odour, aroma, emanation: There is an aura of elegance about the woman that impresses everyone she meets.
BABY|0|n. 1 infant, neonate, newborn, babe, babe in arms, child, toddler, tot: The baby is just beginning to teethe. --v. 2 cosset, coddle, pamper, mollycoddle, indulge, spoil, pet: He turned out that way because he was babied till he was ten. I know you like to be babied when you're ill.
BACK|0|v. 1 invest in, wager or bet on: She backed a 35-to-2 long shot in the Derby, and she won. 2 Also, back up. a support, uphold, stand behind, promote, encourage, help, uphold, second, side with, endorse, aid, abet, assist; sponsor, subsidize, underwrite, subvene, finance, Slang US and Canadian bankroll: Your mother and I will back you if you want to start a business. b reverse, go or move in reverse, go or move backwards: He backed into the driveway. 3 back down (from) or off (from) or away (from) or out (of) or up. withdraw (from), retreat (from), abandon, retire (from), backtrack (from), shy away (from), recoil (from), turn tail (from): When Percy stood up to him, the bully backed down. The investment sounded risky, so I backed off. Philippa backed out of singing the leading role. Back up and give me room! --n. 4 backside, rear, Technical dorsum: She stood with her back towards me. 5 at the back of or at someone's back. behind, following, pursuing, chasing, US in back of: Here come the hounds at the back of the fox. You were at my back in the queue a minute ago. 6 behind the back of or behind someone's back. surreptitiously, secretly, clandestinely, privately, furtively, sneakily, slyly; treacherously, traitorously, perfidiously, deceitfully, insidiously: Graham is always telling tales about you behind your back. 7 break the back of. a overcome, master: Now that he's broken the back of that problem he can get on with his work. b US crush, ruin, bankrupt, destroy, defeat, vanquish, Colloq break: The government has tried on many occasions to break the back of the Mafia operation. 8 on (someone's) back. US weighing (down) on or upon (someone), burdening (someone), lodged with (someone), resting with (someone): The responsibility for the decision is on your back. 9 turn one's back on or upon. abandon, forsake, ignore, disregard, repudiate, reject, cast off, disown, deny: He turned his back on her when she needed him most. 10 with one's back to or against the wall. hard...
BAND|0|n. 1 strip, ribbon, belt, bandeau, fillet, tie; stripe, line, border: He wears a cloth band round his head to keep the sweat out of his eyes. There is a decorative band at the top of each page. --v. 2 line, stripe, border: The column is banded at intervals with bas-reliefs depicting scenes from the emperor's life. 3 tie, keep, bind: Only those papers that are banded together should be sent off.
BARE|0|adj. 1 unclothed, naked, nude, stark naked, unclad, exposed, uncovered, hatless, unshod, undressed , Brit starkers; Colloq in the altogether, in one's birthday suit, in the buff; Slang US bare-ass: He stood completely bare in the middle of the room. 2 unconcealed, undisguised, open, revealed, literal, bald, manifest, out-and-out, overt, uncovered, straightforward, direct, unvarnished, unembellished, cold, hard, plain, unadorned, basic, simple: The bare facts point to him as the culprit. 3 unfurnished, undecorated, vacant, stripped, empty: The landlord entered and found a bare flat - the tenants had done a moonlight flit. 4 denuded, stripped, leafless, defoliated, shorn, barren; bared: After the storm the trees were entirely bare of foliage. The hurricane began blowing in earnest, and the little ketch was driving forward under bare poles. 5 plain, mere, simple, minimal, essential, absolute, basic; meagre, scant, scanty: For years we scraped by with only the bare necessities of life. --v. 6 expose, lay bare, uncover, reveal, open; undress, unveil: The torrential rain had washed away the soil, baring the clay and rock beneath. He tore off his shirt, baring his hairy chest. 7 disclose, reveal, lay bare, uncover, divulge, unfold, tell, expose, unmask, bring to light: Because of the way he had treated her, she decided to bare his secrets to the police. Benson bares his soul in his book. 8 strip, divest, denude; defoliate: The autumn winds bared all the trees in the arboretum.
BASE|0|n. 1 bottom, foot, support, stand, pedestal: The base of the statue cracked and the whole thing fell down. Have you been able to find a teak base for the new lamp? 2 groundwork, background, fundamental principle, principle, foundation, underpinning; infrastructure, basis: Henry's charter was at once welcomed as a base for the needed reforms. 3 root, theme, radical, stem, core: In the word interdigitation the base is -digit- . 4 home, station, camp, starting-point, point of departure, post, centre: Using the Sherpa village as a base of operations, we set up smaller camps as we began to climb the mountain. --v. 5 establish, found, secure, build, ground, anchor, fix, hinge, form; derive, draw: We are basing all our hopes on his ability to do a deal. 6 establish, headquarter, post, station, position, place: The company is based in Guernsey.
BAWL|0|v. 1 shout, bellow, vociferate, roar, yell, trumpet, thunder , Colloq holler: Fishwives bawled out their wares continuously, creating a deafening din. 2 cry, wail, weep, keen, squall, blubber, whimper; yelp, Colloq yammer: Stop that bawling or I'll really give you something to cry about! 3 bawl out. scold, reprimand, upbraid: My father bawled me out because I stayed out past midnight.
BEAM|0|n. 1 timber, scantling, girder, rafter; bar, brace, plank, board, stud, trestle: Are you sure that these beams will support the weight of the upper storeys? 2 ray, gleam; shaft; pencil: I could just make out his face in the beam of the electric torch. --v. 3 radiate, shine; smile radiantly: The door opened and the firelight beamed forth onto the snowdrifts. 'I'm so happy to meet you at last', she beamed.
BEAR|0|v. 1 carry, transport, convey, move, take, Colloq tote: She was borne round the stadium on the shoulders of her team-mates. 2 carry, support, sustain, shoulder, hold up, uphold; suffer, undergo, experience, endure: Looking after her invalid mother while working is a heavy burden to bear. 3 merit, be worthy of, warrant; provoke, invite: Gordon's suggestion bears looking into. 4 stand, abide, tolerate, brook, survive, endure, stand up to; reconcile oneself to, admit of, Colloq put up with: How can you bear such boring people? His actions will not bear examination. I cannot bear to see you unhappy. 5 have, carry, show, exhibit, display, sustain: The getaway car bore German licence plates. The knight bore the scars of many battles. She bears her grandmother's name. 6 produce, yield, develop, breed, generate, engender; give birth to, spawn, bring forth: Our apple tree did not bear any fruit this year. She bore thirteen children and still had time to write books. 7 entertain, harbour, wish: He bore her no ill will, despite her accusations. 8 bear on or upon. relate or have relevance or be relevant to or pertain to, touch on or upon, affect, concern, have a bearing on or upon, influence: I don't quite see how your illness bears on which school James attends. 9 bear out. confirm, support, corroborate, substantiate, uphold, back up: The evidence bears out what I said. 10 bear up. a survive, hold out, stand up, hold up, withstand: Can Alex bear up under the strain of keeping two jobs? b support, cheer, encourage: What hope have you to bear you up? 11 bear with. put up with, be patient with, make allowance(s) for: Please bear with me, I'm sure you'll think it was worth waiting when you see the finished result.
BEAT|0|v. 1 strike, pound, bash, smite, batter, pummel or pommel, belabour, pelt, clout, thrash, give (someone) a thrashing or beating, drub, manhandle, thump, whack, cane, scourge, whip, bludgeon, club, cudgel, fustigate; whip, flog, lash , Colloq clobber, wallop, give (someone) a once-over: At first he refused to tell them, but then they beat it out of him. 2 defeat, best, worst, win (out) over, vanquish, trounce, rout, outdo, subdue, overcome, overwhelm, pre-empt; surpass, conquer, crush, master, US beat out: Can they beat Manchester United for the cup? He first beat the Danes, then the Russians. 3 throb, pulsate, palpitate, pound, thump: I could feel my heart beating against my ribs. 4 Nautical tack: Close-hauled, the sloop was beating to windward against the howling gale. 5 hammer, forge, shape, form, fashion, make, mould: They shall beat their swords into ploughshares. 6 mix, whip, stir, blend: Beat two eggs, then add the flour and sugar. 7 tread, wear, trample: The hunters beat a path through the forest. 8 beat it. depart, leave, abscond, run off or away, Slang US take it on the lam, lam out of here, US hit the road: You'd better beat it before the cops come. 9 beat off. drive off or away, rout: We beat off our attackers, who fled into the forest. --n. 10 stroke, blow: The signal was to be three beats of a tin cup on the pipes. 11 rhythm, tempo, measure; pulse, throb, stress, pulsation: In boogie-woogie the beat is eight to the bar. 12 course, round, tour, route, circuit, run, path; area, bailiwick: In the old days, it was the bobby on the beat who prevented a lot of crime. As a reporter, my beat is the financial news. --adj. 13 dead beat, exhausted, spent, drained, worn out, weary, bone-tired, fatigued, fagged: I was really beat after completing the marathon.
BELT|0|n. 1 sash; Literary girdle, cestus, cincture, zone: At her belt she wore a dagger in a golden scabbard. 2 zone, band, strip, circuit, perimeter; area, swath, tract, region, district: The planners ensured that each city would be surrounded by a green belt. --v. 3 strike, hit, punch; beat, thrash: When he insulted her, I simply belted him. 4 belt out. sing or perform stridently or loudly; put over or across: Sophie Tucker was there, belting out 'One of These Days'.
BEND|0|n. 1 curve, turn, turning, corner; bow, angle, crook, hook, curvature, flexure: Go left at the bend in the road. If you put a bend in a wire hanger, you can fish out the obstruction. --v. 2 arch, bow, curve, crook: Soak the branch in water and it will bend easily. Stop bending my arm - it hurts! 3 bow; curtsy or curtsey; kowtow, salaam; kneel, genuflect: The cannibal bent down before a pile of skulls. 4 incline, channel, focus, direct, steer, set; fix: He bent his attention on more important matters. She bent her steps towards the cemetery. 5 submit, bow, yield, give way, be pliant or subservient or tractable: The cabinet bends to the will of the prime minister. 6 incline, turn, deflect: As you can see, the ray is bent by the lens.
BENT|0|adj. 1 curved, deflected, bowed, crooked, distorted: He complained to the waiter just because the fork was bent. 2 strange, weird, peculiar, twisted, deviant, warped, wry, awry, corrupt, corrupted; perverted, perverse, abnormal: You'd be bent, too, if you'd been in prison for fifteen years. 3 dishonest, crooked, illegal: That share deal sounds a bit bent to me: I'll pass. 4 determined, intent, set, resolved, resolute, decided, set: Garvey is bent on running in the marathon, despite his sprained ankle. --n. 5 turn, inclination, direction, disposition, predisposition, tendency, bias, leaning, proclivity, propensity, partiality, prejudice; ability, aptitude, talent, gift: She wished to follow the bent of her own taste. He has a natural bent for music.
BEST|0|adj. 1 superlative, unexcelled, finest, pre-eminent, first, superb, unsurpassed, superior, excellent, paramount, first-rate, Colloq A-1, A-one: Henry VIII was the best rider, the best lance, and the best archer in England. 2 kindest, most beneficent, nicest: Which of your brothers is the best to you? 3 foremost, choicest, pre-eminent, most suitable, most appropriate, most qualified, most talented, most desirable, most outstanding: We want the best person to fill the job. 4 largest, most, greatest: She had travelled the best part of the way by ship. 5 richest, wealthiest; first-class, upper crust, upper-class: He associates only with those he considers to be the best people. --n. 6 finest; first: The best is yet to come. 7 finery, best clothes, Colloq best bib and tucker: He was all decked out in his Sunday best. 8 greatest or maximum effort: He did his best but it wasn't enough to win. --adv. 9 most excellently, to the fullest extent, in the most suitable way, most adroitly, most skilfully, most superbly, most artistically: All the children performed well, but Alice performed best. 10 with greatest satisfaction, most successfully: He who laughs last laughs best. --v. 11 win (out) over, conquer, beat, surpass, overpower, get the better of, subdue, defeat, worst, vanquish, trounce, rout, crush, master, outdo, overwhelm, overcome, outwit: He was bested in three falls out of four.
BIAS|0|n. 1 prejudice, partiality; inclination, leaning, bent, disposition, propensity, tendency, predilection, predisposition, proclivity: She shows a marked bias in favour of the Irish. 2 angle, slant, diagonal: Cut the fabric on the bias. 3 influence, impulse, weight: If he is under any bias, it is on the side of fairness. --v. 4 influence, affect unduly or unfairly, sway, incline, prejudice, colour, taint, predispose: Artists are seldom good critics of art because they have been biased.
BILL|0|n. 1 invoice, account; tally, reckoning, tabulation, US (restaurant) check, Colloq US tab: Have you paid the telephone bill? 2 US and Canadian note, banknote, paper money, Colloq folding money: The robbers took only small bills, which they could spend easily. --v. 3 invoice, charge: I haven't got my cheque-book with me, please could you bill me.
BIND|0|v. 1 tie, fasten, secure, make fast, tie up: The thieves bound him hand and foot. 2 constrain; hold, oblige, obligate: The contract we signed is equally binding on both parties. The union is bound by an agreement that expires in a month. 3 gird, encircle, wreathe, wrap, cover, swathe, bandage: They were binding his wounded head. 4 cement, stick, cause to adhere; attach, connect: Ordinary glue will bind these pieces together. --n. 5 Colloq US dilemma, predicament, tight spot, (difficult) situation, Colloq pickle, fix, jam: I'm in a real bind because I've invited two girls to the party. 6 Colloq Brit annoyance, irritant, bother, bore, trial, ordeal, irritation, vexation, Colloq pain (in the neck or arse): It was a bit of a bind having to wait three hours at the airport.
BITE|0|v. 1 nip; chew, gnaw: That dog of yours bit a piece out of my ankle. 2 sting: She was bitten by a mosquito. --n. 3 mouthful, morsel, scrap, bit, piece, taste; snack, Slang nosh: The survivors hadn't had a bite of food for three days. Come round for a bite on Sunday evening before the concert. 4 sting: These mosquito bites itch horribly.
BLAB|0|Colloq v. broadcast, tattle, babble, betray, reveal, disclose, divulge, expose: Don't tell Frieda - she'll blab your secrets all over town.
BLAS|0|adj. 1 bored, jaded, weary, unimpressed, ennuy÷: Her blas÷ attitude does little to endear her at job interviews. 2 indifferent, cool, superior, supercilious, sophisticated, unmoved, nonchalant, emotionless, phlegmatic, apathetic, pococurante, carefree, light-hearted, insouciant: His blas÷ behaviour hides his basic feelings of insecurity.
BLOB|0|n. gob, gobbet, globule, drop, droplet, bit, gout, lump, dab, Colloq glob, Chiefly US and Canadian smidgen or smidgin: There's a blob of jelly on your tie.
BLOT|0|n. 1 stain, spot, mark, smudge, blotch, blemish, disfigurement, smear, smirch, scar, Colloq splodge or US also splotch: An ink blot covered the date of the document. There are a few blots on his record from his time in the army. --v. 2 stain, spot, spatter, smudge, mark, blur: You have blotted these pages where you wrote with a fountain-pen. 3 blot one's copybook. err, destroy or ruin or mar or spoil one's reputation, commit an indiscretion, transgress, sin: She's certainly blotted her copybook by having an affair with that subaltern. 4 blot out. a obscure, conceal, cover (up), hide, eclipse, dim: The clouds blotted out the sun for a few minutes. b obliterate, destroy, erase, demolish, efface, annihilate, delete, rub or wipe out: He subconsciously blotted out all memory of the accident.
BLOW|0|v. 1 breathe, puff, exhale; expel: If the crystals turn green when you blow into the tube, it means that you've had too much to drink. Blow some air into the balloon. 2 waft, puff, whistle, whine, blast: An icy wind blew through the cracks in the windows. 3 Colloq bungle, botch, make a mess of, muff, mismanage, Colloq screw up, mess up, fluff, bugger up, Taboo fuck up: It was my last chance to win and I blew it. 4 Colloq spend, lavish, squander, waste, throw out or away: She blew hundreds on that dress and now she won't wear it. 5 short-circuit, burn out: All the fuses blew when I turned on the electric heater. 6 blow hot and cold. vacillate, hesitate, dither, Colloq shilly-shally: The sales manager has been blowing hot and cold over my proposal for a month now. 7 blow out. a extinguish: I blew out all the candles in one breath. The match blew out in the wind. b explode, burst: One of my tyres blew out on the way over here. c short-circuit, burn out: The lights blew out during the storm. 8 blow up. a become furious or angry or enraged, flare up, lose one's temper, Slang blow one's top or US also stack, flip one's lid: She really blew up when I said I was going to the pub. b explode, burst, shatter, Colloq bust; detonate, dynamite, destroy, blast: The bridge blew up with a roar. Demolition experts will blow up the dam. c enlarge, inflate, embroider, magnify, expand, exaggerate, overstate: The tabloid press has blown up the story out of all proportion. d enlarge, magnify, amplify, expand, increase: Can you blow up just this corner of the photograph? e inflate; distend, swell: We were busy blowing up balloons for the party. --n. 9 gale, storm, tempest, whirlwind, tornado, cyclone, hurricane, typhoon, north-easter, nor'easter: We can expect a big blow tonight - winds of gale force, they say.
BLUE|0|adj. 1 depressed, low-spirited, dispirited, sad, dismal, down, down in the mouth, gloomy, unhappy, glum, downcast, crestfallen, chap-fallen, dejected, melancholy, despondent, downhearted, morose: I've been feeling blue since Kathleen left me. 2 obscene, vulgar, indecent, titillating, pornographic, dirty, filthy, lewd, smutty, risqu÷, bawdy, sexy, X, X-rated, 18, US XXX; indelicate, suggestive, off colour, erotic, coarse, offensive, improper: There's a place nearby that shows blue movies.
BLUR|0|n. 1 indistinctness, dimness, haziness, cloudiness, fogginess: We were unable to pick out the star from the blur of the Galaxy. 2 fog, haze, Brit fuzz: Without my spectacles, everything is a blur. --v. 3 dim, befog, obscure, bedim; efface: My vision was momentarily blurred, and I didn't see the oncoming car. 4 obscure, hide, conceal, veil, mask; weaken: The Honourable Gentleman has blurred the distinction between the unemployed and the unemployable.
BOAT|0|n. vessel, craft, skiff, small craft, motor boat, speedboat, knockabout, runabout, yacht, motor yacht, sailing-yacht, Brit rowing-boat, sailing-boat, US row-boat, sailboat, Colloq ship: I bought a 30-foot boat at this year's show. They went off on a slow boat to China.
BODE|0|v. portend, promise, augur, betoken, forebode, presage; foreshadow: The weather bodes well for the picnic.
BODY|0|n. 1 corpse, cadaver, remains, carcass, Slang stiff: A body has been dragged up from the lake. 2 trunk, torso: They found the body, but the arms, legs, and head were missing. 3 main part or portion, hull, fuselage: The body of the plane remained intact, though the wings and superstructure broke away. 4 substance, essentials, main part, essence, heart, centre, core: The body of the book is all right, but the index needs work. 5 majority, bulk, main part or portion, mass(es): Under Henry VIII the main body of the people were prosperous. 6 association, league, band, corps, confederation, fraternity, society; committee, council; group, assemblage, assembly, congress, company: It is not within the power of this body to do more than vote on the proposal. 7 richness, substance, firmness, consistency, solidity, thickness, density, fullness, viscosity, fullness: This wine has excellent body. Add a little cornflour to give the sauce more body.
BOIL|0|v. 1 bubble, seethe; simmer, stew, steam: A pot of soup was boiling on the kitchen stove. 2 seethe, fume, sizzle, smoulder, chafe, fulminate, ferment, sputter, splutter, bluster: When she learned what he had been saying about her, she boiled with furious indignation.
BOLD|0|adj. 1 courageous, brave, plucky, confident, stout-hearted, lion-hearted, daring, enterprising, audacious, fearless, unafraid, intrepid, resolute, dauntless, undaunted, valiant, stout, valorous, stalwart, adventurous, venturesome; reckless, foolhardy, incautious, daredevil, rash: It would take a bold man to enter the ring with the champion. 2 audacious, presumptuous, forward, immodest, brazen, impudent, temerarious, impertinent, shameless: It was very bold of you to speak your mind to the boss. 3 pronounced, outstanding, striking, vigorous, clear, strong, vivid, distinct, conspicuous: He wrote down their demands in a good, bold hand.
BOLT|0|n. 1 arrow, dart, projectile, missile, Historical quarrel: He had only three bolts remaining for the crossbow. 2 pin, bar, rod, catch; latch: We hoped that the bolt would prevent their opening the door. 3 machine screw: Bolts can be tightened or removed, unlike rivets. 4 roll, length: We sell only full bolts of fabric. 5 lightning flash, thunderbolt, Formal fulguration: One bolt travelled down the television aerial and blew out the set. 6 bolt from or out of the blue. surprise, shock, bombshell, bomb, blow, revelation, eye-opener, Colloq shocker: The news of her resignation came like a bolt from the blue. 7 shoot one's bolt. exhaust or use up one's resources, Slang burn out, US poop out: He was fast early in the marathon, but he'd shot his bolt long before the finishing line. --v. 8 spring, dart, shoot off, take flight, run (away or off), rush (off or away), break away, flee, decamp, abscond, escape, fly, dash (off or away), Colloq skedaddle, scram, Brit scarper, do a bunk, do a moonlight flit, US take a (run-out) powder,: The youths bolted as soon as they saw the police. The couple in room 315 bolted without paying their bill. 9 gulp (down), swallow whole: When the bell rang, she bolted her breakfast and ran out of the back door. 10 fasten, lock, latch, secure: Make sure you bolt your door at night and don't let anyone in. 11 fix, attach, fasten, connect, make fast to: The motor must be securely bolted to the workbench. --adv. 12 bolt upright. erect, straight, rigidly, stiffly: When her name was called, Penny sat bolt upright in her chair.
BOMB|0|n. 1 bombshell, shell, explosive: One of the bombs blew up the school. --v. 2 bombard, shell, batter, blow up: Last night the railway station was bombed.
BOND|0|n. 1 tie(s), shackles, chains, fetters, manacles, handcuffs, trammels, thongs, cord(s), rope(s); restraint(s), constraint(s), check(s), control(s), rein(s): The council is hampered by the bonds of the old regulations. 2 covenant, pact, contract, agreement, engagement, compact, treaty: To unite the party a bond of confederacy was formed. 3 connection, link, linkage, union, tie, relationship: The main bond between us was a shared love of the theatre. The bond between the veneer and the board should hold with a little more glue. --v. 4 cement, bind, hold together, stick, cohere: They use mortar to bond the bricks together.
BOOK|0|n. 1 volume, tome, work, publication; hard-cover, soft-cover, paperback: Our personal library contains more than 5000 books. 2 libretto, words, lyrics: Richard Rodgers wrote the music and Oscar Hammerstein the book for several hit shows. 3 rules, laws, regulations: He always insists that we go by the book. --v. 4 engage, reserve; earmark, ticket; order, register, enrol, list, enlist, log, record, post: Please phone the restaurant and book a table for four for seven-thirty.
BOOM|0|v. 1 sound, resound, resonate, blast, rumble, thunder, roar, bang, explode: We heard the cannons booming in the distance. 2 prosper, thrive, flourish, progress, grow, increase, burgeon or bourgeon: Business is booming in every sector. --n. 3 blast, rumble, explosion: There was a resounding boom and the car went up in flames. 4 prosperity, profitability; growth, increase, burgeoning or bourgeoning: In this business it is either boom or bust.
BOON|0|n. gift, favour, award, reward, gratuity, present; blessing, benefit, advantage: The mobile library service is a great boon to the elderly in the area.
BOOR|0|n. 1 rustic, peasant, yokel, (country) bumpkin, provincial, backwoodsman, US hayseed, hill-billy, Juke, Kallikak, Slang hick: The boor is blind to the beauties of nature. 2 barbarian, yahoo, oaf, clod, clodhopper, philistine, clown, Grobian; hoyden, Colloq lummox, Slang galoot, slob, US goop, slobbovian: The guests behaved like boors, throwing their food at each other.
BOOT|0|n. 1 to boot. in addition, into the bargain, in addition, besides, moreover, as well, also, too, additionally: He's stingy and cruel - and ugly to boot. 2 shoe, riding-boot, bootee: I need a new pair of boots for my walking holiday. --v. 3 eject, expel, shove, propel, push, Colloq kick: The landlord booted three rowdies out of the pub. 4 Literary profit, avail, help, be in aid of: What boots it to complain?
BORE|0|n. 1 hole, drill-hole, borehole: A bore of six inches was carried to a depth of 2086 feet. --v. 2 pierce, perforate, drill, penetrate, puncture, tap, punch, stab, prick; sink, tunnel, dig (out), gouge (out); hollow out: Bore a hole through this sheet metal. The oil rig is boring through solid rock.
BOSS|0|n. 1 chief, supervisor, head, administrator, manager, foreman, superintendent, overseer; employer, director, proprietor, owner, Brit managing director , US president, Dialect himself, Colloq supremo, Brit governor, gov., gaffer, US super, leader, kingpin, big cheese, the man, Slang honcho, head or chief honcho, Mr Big, prex or prexy: If you have to leave early, check with the boss. The company boss was interviewed on television last night. --v. 2 supervise, head, manage, run, oversee, overlook, direct, control, superintend, command, take charge, be in charge: Clive has been here only a year and he's already bossing a department. 3 domineer, push or shove around or about, dominate, order about, lord it over: That slave-driver had better stop bossing me about or I'll quit!
BOUT|0|n. 1 turn, round, time, occasion, spell, period, session: He's just got over a bout of pneumonia. 2 chance, spree, stint, opportunity, innings: We had long planned this bout of shopping. 3 contest, match, boxing-match, prizefight, meet, set-to, struggle, encounter, engagement; duel: A bout has been arranged between the heavyweight champion of the world and a challenger from Puerto Rico.
BOWL|0|v. move, trundle, wheel, roll, spin: We saw him in his car, bowling along at about 40.
BRAG|0|v. boast, crow, trumpet, vaunt, strut, swagger, show off, Colloq talk big, blow or toot one's own horn or trumpet, go on about: He's always bragging about what he did in the war.
BREW|0|v. 1 ferment, cook, boil; infuse: Our beer is brewed using the best hops. 2 concoct, devise, plan, Colloq cook up; contrive, prepare, bring about, cause, produce, hatch: They are brewing up a plot to unseat the financial director. 3 start, go on, hatch, begin, form; stew, simmer, Colloq cook: A storm is brewing. --n. 4 beer, ale, stout; tea; beverage, drink; concoction, mixture: She served me some strange brew in which I could detect cinnamon and nutmeg.
BRIM|0|n. 1 edge, margin, lip, rim; brink: I filled the cup to the brim. --v. 2 be full or filled, overflow: His cup was brimming with steaming mulled wine. They are brimming over with confidence as they approach the race.
BULK|0|n. 1 volume, magnitude, mass, enlargement, largeness, size: The sausage-makers add bread just for bulk. 2 majority: The bulk of the people voted for the proposal.
BUOY|0|n. 1 (navigational or channel) mark or marker, float; nun (-buoy), can (-buoy), bell (buoy), gong (-buoy), siren, signal, mooring-buoy, spar-buoy, lollipop: Returning to port, always leave the red buoys to starboard. --v. 2 Often, buoy up. lift, raise, elevate, support, hearten, sustain, keep up: We sang songs to buoy up our spirits while the rescuers dug their way towards us.
BURN|0|v. 1 blaze, flame, flare, smoulder: A fire was burning on the hearth. 2 ignite, set on fire, fire, light, kindle, incinerate, Slang torch: He burnt the incriminating papers in the fireplace. 3 desire, yearn, wish, long, itch: He wrote 'Darling, I am burning to be with you tonight'. 4 waste, throw or fritter away, squander: Don't worry about Norman, he has money to burn. 5 overcook, blacken, char, singe: If you're not careful, you'll burn the toast again.
BURY|0|n. 1 inter, inhume, lay to rest: They buried her next to her husband as she had requested. 2 abandon, forget, consign to oblivion, eradicate, extirpate: The residents buried their differences and united to repel the town planners. 3 submerge (oneself), exile (oneself), plunge, become engrossed or absorbed: She buried herself in her book. 4 conceal, obscure, hide, cover up: The real story was by now completely buried beneath the mass of legend. 5 overwhelm, overcome, inundate: I'm so buried in work I can't take a holiday.
BUSY|0|adj. 1 occupied, engaged, employed, involved: I can't talk to you now, I'm busy. 2 working, industrious, active, diligent; bustling, hectic, lively, hustling, energetic: Are you very busy at the office these days? The diamond district is certainly a busy place. 3 ornate, elaborate, detailed, complicated, complex, (over-)decorated, intricate, Baroque, Rococo: Some of the late Victorian architecture is far too busy for my taste. --v. 4 occupy, involve, employ, divert, absorb, engross: She has busied herself with charity work to get her mind off the tragedy.
BUTT|0|n. target, end, object, prey, victim, dupe; gull, Colloq pigeon, sucker; Brit Aunt Sally, Slang US and Canadian patsy: He was always the butt of their jokes.
CAGE|0|n. 1 crate, enclosure, pen, pound, coop, hutch: He keeps rooks in a cage. --v. 2 Also, cage up or in. confine, enclose, pen, impound, shut up, or in, coop (up), imprison; restrict, restrain, hem in: They keep the kitten caged like a wild animal. I don't like to stay caged up in my office all day.
CAKE|0|n. 1 pastry, bun, Brit gateau: Right now, I should like to have a glass of milk and a piece of chocolate cake. 2 piece, chunk, bar, block, cube, lump, loaf, slab: Barbara gave me a cake of fancy perfumed soap for my birthday. --v. 3 harden, solidify, thicken, congeal, dry, coagulate, encrust, consolidate: You can see where the paint has caked.
CALL|0|v. 1 shout, cry (out), hail, yell, roar, bellow, call out, Colloq holler: I heard someone calling my name. 2 name, designate, denote, denominate, term, style, nickname, label, title, entitle, tag, identify, dub, christen, baptize: My real name is Angus, but they call me Scotty. A person from Glasgow is called a Glaswegian. 3 call up, telephone, phone, ring (up), dial, Colloq buzz: As it's her birthday, I must call my mother in Australia. Don't call us, we'll call you. 4 summon, invite, assemble, convoke, convene, bid, gather, collect, muster, rally: From the minaret, the muezzin was calling the faithful to prayer. Many are called but few are chosen. 5 visit, attend; call in; call on: My great aunt Frederica came to call last Sunday. 6 awake, awaken, wake up, rouse, Colloq Brit knock up: Please call me at six. 7 call down. a appeal to, invoke, petition, request, entreat, supplicate: He called down the wrath of God on the Philistines. b reprimand, chastise, castigate, upbraid, scold, reprove, rebuke: He was called down for having left the house after curfew. 8 call for. a demand, request, ask for, order, require, claim: The people in room 429 have called for clean towels. The problem calls for your urgent attention. b pick up, fetch, come for, get, accompany, Colloq collect: I'll call for you at seven o'clock. 9 call forth. summon, invoke, draw on or upon, evoke; elicit, inspire: Susan called forth all her courage and faced her accusers. He failed to call forth much enthusiasm in his listeners. 10 call on or upon. a request of, entreat, ask, address; apostrophize: The teacher called on me today to recite Hamlet's soliloquy. b supplicate, apostrophize, appeal to: He called on ôolus, god of the winds, for a fair breeze to carry his ship home. c visit: The vicar called on us when we first moved in. 11 call off. cancel; discontinue; postpone: The picnic has been called off because of rain. 12 call up. a summon, enlist, recruit, conscript, US draft: Father was called up a...
CALM|0|n. 1 quiet, stillness, tranquillity, serenity, hush, peace, peacefulness: A storm raged outside, but in the harbour was a breathless calm. 2 calmness, composure, placidity, placidness, peace, repose, sang-froid, coolness, self-control, equanimity, self-possession: The calm exhibited by the passengers during the hijacking was admirable. --adj. 3 quiet, still, tranquil, serene, peaceful, balmy, halcyon, mild, undisturbed, unagitated, placid, pacific; motionless, smooth, even; windless: The sea is never calm in the same sense as a mountain lake. 4 composed, cool, cool-headed, self-controlled, impassive, dispassionate, unmoved, unruffled, serene, tranquil, sedate, staid, stoical, Colloq together: She remained calm while the others panicked. --v. 5 Also, calm down. quiet, quieten, still, soothe, hush, lull, pacify; mollify, appease, placate, become or make quiet or pacified or less agitated, Colloq cool off or down: The arbitrator did his best to calm the two litigants by suggesting a compromise. After everyone had calmed down, the speaker continued.
CAMP|0|n. 1 camping-ground, camp-ground, bivouac, encampment, camp-site; settlement; camping-site, Brit caravan site: The name 'Chester' derives from Latin castrum, meaning 'camp', for the city was originally the site of a Roman camp. Is there a camp where we can stay overnight? 2 faction, set, coterie, clique, group, party, body: On this issue, the politicians are divided into two camps. --v. 3 encamp, pitch camp, tent: Our family likes to go camping in the mountains during the summer. 4 lodge, bivouac, settle: The platoon camped by the river. 5 camp out. Slang crash: Mind if I camp out in your pad tonight?
CANT|0|n. 1 hypocrisy, insincerity, sham, pretence, humbug, sanctimony, sanctimoniousness, lip-service, affectedness, pretension: He wasn't really enthusiastic - all that talk was just cant. 2 jargon, shop, shop-talk, argot, vernacular, slang, dialect, patois, Creole, pidgin, gobbledegook or gobbledygook, Colloq lingo: The criminals use a cant not understood by those outside their fraternity.
CAPE|0|n. headland, promontory, peninsula, neck, point, Archaic ness: We sailed round the cape and made for the harbour.
CARD|0|n. 1 playing-card, Slang pasteboard: The winning card was the ten of diamonds. 2 calling-card, visiting-card, carte de visite, business card: Visitors used to leave their cards on the silver tray at the front door. 3 greetings card, Christmas card, birthday card, anniversary card, condolence card, Easter card, New Year card: I sent Jacquelyn a card for her birthday last year. 4 postcard, US postal card: Drop me a card when you get there, just so I'll know you're all right. 5 index card, file card: The names and addresses of our members, formerly held on cards, are now stored in the computer. 6 membership card; press card; union card: I showed my card at the door and they let me in without any problem. 7 dance-card: She told me that her dance-card was full - and was likely to be for the next ten years. 8 US car-card, window-card, show-card: At the cost of a card on the New York buses, we'd never get our money back. 9 credit card; bank card: You may pay by card or cheque. They won't accept your cheque without a card. 10 identity or identification card, I.D. (card): The police asked to see my card. 11 joker, prankster, practical joker, wag, humorist, comedian, funny man: That Oscar - he's quite a card, isn't he? 12 on or esp. US in the cards. destined, fated, slated, in the offing; likely, probable, possible, liable: I doubt that a change of government is on the cards for some time to come. 13 play one's cards right, well, badly, etc. act, behave, take action; plan, use strategy: If Francis plays his cards right, he may be made head of department when Mark leaves. 14 put or lay one's cards on the table or show one's cards. act openly, reveal all, be forthright, be direct, be open, be honest, be unsecretive, Colloq come clean: I'm going to put my cards on the table, and let you know all my plans.
CARE|0|n. 1 anxiety, worry, trouble, anguish, disquiet, distress, grief, sorrow, dolour, sadness, suffering, misery, woe, tribulation: His haggard look reflected a life of care. 2 concern, regard, vigilance, mindfulness, heed, solicitude; heedfulness, attention, pains, carefulness, meticulousness, punctiliousness; caution, circumspection: The essence of public-spiritedness is care for the common good. He looks after his moustache and beard with great care. Open with care. 3 responsibility, charge, protection, guardianship, custody, keeping, safe keeping; control, direction, supervision: The child has been released into our care. 4 take care of. look after, attend to, be responsible for, take charge of, take responsibility for; tend, nurse: You should take care of your money. Does she have enough experience to take care of someone who is ill? --v. 5 be concerned, trouble oneself, feel interest, worry, fret, trouble, Brit mind: Do you care whether Arnold gets the job he wants? I don't care who you are, you can't come in here! 6 care for. a look after, tend, attend (to), watch over, protect, take care of, provide for; nurse: He cared for his ailing parents for about twenty years. b like, fancy, be attracted to, be fond of, love, be keen on, be enamoured of: Jennifer admitted last night how much she cares for David.
CARP|0|v. find fault, criticize, cavil, complain, nag, pick at, pick on, bully, bullyrag or ballyrag, Colloq knock, pick holes (in), gripe, Brit whinge: She said that she would leave him if he kept on carping at her about her cooking.
CART|0|n. 1 handcart, pushcart, trolley, barrow, wagon or Brit also waggon: You'll need a cart to carry all these things to the car. --v. 2 carry, convey, move, lug, drag, tote, transport, bring, haul, Colloq US schlep: Why do you cart that heavy bag everywhere you go?
CASE|0|n. 1 instance, example, event, occurrence; happening, occasion, circumstance, state, situation: In a recent case a farmer was attacked by a man-eating tiger. Holmes is investigating a case of a missing necklace. 2 action, suit, lawsuit, dispute; cause: I lost my case. 3 patient, invalid, victim: Four new cases were admitted to the hospital yesterday. 4 specimen, instance, example: Howard is an odd case, isn't he? 5 in any case. in any event, come what may, at all events, anyhow, anyway: In any case, your decision won't affect me. 6 in case. a lest, for fear that: He was worried in case his wife found out where he had been. b if, in the event that, if it happens or proves or turns out that, if it should happen or prove or turn out that: In case you were thinking of leaving, remember that we have your car keys. 7 in case of. in the event of; for fear of: In case of fire, you must use the staircase. We insured the house in case of fire. 8 the case. the fact, the actuality, the truth, the reality, what really happened or took place: She said he was drunk, but that's not the case.
CASH|0|n. 1 money, currency, bills, notes, banknotes, change, hard cash or money, specie, coin of the realm, legal tender, Slang moolah, dough, bread, loot, spondulicks or spondulix, Brit lolly, ready, readies, US scratch, gelt, mazuma: The shop accepts only cash, no charge cards. --v. 2 Also, cash in. change, sell, liquidate, exchange; realize: She cashed some bonds to pay off the overdraft.
CAST|0|n. 1 throw, toss, pitch, shy, lob, thrust, chuck: In his next cast, the bowler lightly struck the jack. 2 dramatis personae, actors and actresses, players, performers, troupe, company: We invited the cast to a party after the show. 3 form, shape, mould; formation, formulation, arrangement: She can appreciate the turn of the phrase, the happy cast and flow of the sentence. 4 model, casting, mould; stamp, type: The Ming vase was copied from a cast. There are not many men of the cast of Crocker. 5 twist, turn, irregularity, warp; squint: The mare had a cast in her gallop. The pirate had a cast in his left eye. 6 turn, inclination, bent, hint, touch; tinge, tint, colouring: He has a melancholy cast of mind. --v. 7 throw, toss, pitch, fling, sling, hurl, dash, send, Colloq chuck, shy: She tore off the gold necklace and cast it into the lake. 8 assign, delegate, appoint, designate, name, nominate, choose, pick, select: He has cast me as the villain in his little drama. 9 form, mould, found: The king's death-mask, cast in plaster, was on the floor of the tomb. 10 cast about for. search for, look for, seek: He was casting about for an excuse to avoid going to the Fordyces' for dinner. 11 cast aside. reject, discard, cast or throw away or out, get rid of: The expensive toys had been cast aside and the children were playing with the boxes and wrappings. 12 cast away. maroon, shipwreck: Jim O'Shea was cast away upon an Indian isle. 13 cast off. throw off, shed, doff: One's upbringing cannot be cast off like an old overcoat. 14 cast out. expel, drive out, throw out, evict, eject, oust, exile, remove, cast aside: She was cast out of the house by her mother, who had married a biker.
CAVE|0|n. 1 cavern, grotto, hollow, hole, cavity, den: In the cave were prehistoric wall paintings. --v. 2 cave in. a collapse, break down, give way, subside, fall in or inwards: The earthquake caused the walls of the house to cave in. b yield, submit, give way; surrender; Colloq buckle, knuckle under: After eight hours of questioning, he caved in and told them everything.
CEDE|0|v. yield, give way, give up, grant, give, surrender, deliver up, turn or make or hand over, convey, transfer, relinquish, abandon, renounce, abdicate: Let private concerns always cede to the common good. The territory was ceded to our government in 1792.
CELL|0|n. chamber, room, apartment, cubicle; stall: As a friar, he lived in a small, plain cell for most of his life.
CHAP|0|n. fellow, lad, man, boy, Colloq guy, geezer, customer, gink, Brit bloke, Australian cove, US buddy, gazabo or gazebo; Old-fashioned Brit (old) egg, (old) bean, (old) crumpet, (old) boy; Slang US bozo: I went with some of the chaps from the club.
CHAT|0|n. 1 conversation, colloquy, talk, small talk, gossip, palaver, chit-chat, téte-å-téte, heart-to-heart, Colloq gab, Chiefly Brit chin-wag, confab, Brit witter, natter, US and Canadian rap, gabfest, bull session: We'd get together for a chat every now and then. --v. 2 converse, gossip, talk, chit-chat, Colloq gab, chew the fat or the rag, jaw, Brit witter, natter; Slang US and Canadian rap, bullshit: We were just chatting when I smelt something burning. 3 Brit chat up. flirt or dally with, persuade, induce, prevail upon, tempt, lure, entice, inveigle, seduce, proposition: Rick chats up every girl he meets.
CHEW|0|v. 1 masticate, grind, munch; bite, gnaw: Make sure to chew each mouthful thoroughly. The puppy chewed up my slipper. 2 chew the fat or rag. gossip, palaver, chat, converse, talk, Slang US and Canadian bullshit: We sat round the fire and chewed the fat all evening. 3 chew out. scold, rebuke, reprimand: The sergeant chewed out the recruit because his boots were dirty. 4 chew over. think about or on or over, consider, review, ponder, ruminate on, meditate on or over: I'll chew over your proposal and let you know.
CHIC|0|adj. 1 stylish, fashionable, å la mode, modish, smart, tasteful, elegant; sophisticated; Colloq trendy: Susanna was always a chic dresser. --n. 2 style, fashion, good taste, tastefulness, elegance, stylishness, modishness: There is an air of chic about him that repels many men but attracts many women.
CHIP|0|n. 1 fragment, piece, shard or sherd, splinter, flake, sliver, scrap, morsel, bit: A chip of slate rattled down off the roof. 2 counter, marker, token; plaque, US check: He put his chip on number 14. --v. 3 chisel, whittle, hew: He chipped away at the stone till it fitted perfectly into the hole. 4 chip in. a contribute; participate: All the neighbours chipped in to pay for the street decorations. b interrupt, break in, intrude, interfere, intercede, interpose, Colloq chime in: Clive chipped in with his usual silly comment.
CHOP|0|v. 1 Also, chop away or down or off. cut, hack, hew, lop, crop, cleave, sever: Chop away that underbrush. I tried to chop off the end. Don't chop down that tree! 2 Also, chop up. mince; dice, cube; hash: Chop up the parsley very fine before adding it to the sauce. --n. 3 cut, blow, stroke: With a quick chop of the axe, the branch was severed.
CHUM|0|n. 1 friend, comrade, companion; confidant(e), familiar; fellow, colleague, Colloq pal, sidekick, Chiefly Brit and Australian and New Zealand mate, Chiefly US and Canadian buddy: I invited a chum of mine for the weekend. --v. 2 Often, chum around. associate, Colloq pal (around): Yes, we used to chum around together in the army. 3 chum up with. ally (oneself) with, be friendly with, go with, associate with, Colloq pal (up or about or around) with, US team up with: Lionel chummed up with Ashley to go swimming.
CITY|0|n. metropolis, municipality, borough, burgh; conurbation, megalopolis; Brit urban district; see, diocese, bishopric; New Zealand urban area; Colloq town, US burg, big apple: We gave up our flat in the city and moved to the country.
CLAN|0|n. 1 tribe, family, dynasty, line, house: There had been a feud of long standing between the two clans, which culminated in the massacre of Glencoe. 2 fraternity, brotherhood, party, set, clique, coterie, circle, crowd, group, fellowship, society, faction, family, tribe; band, ring, gang: He regards social scientists as a clan quite separate from other scientists.
CLAP|0|v. 1 applaud; cheer, acclaim: Everyone clapped when the boxer climbed into the ring. 2 slap, strike, pat: He clapped me on the shoulder in the friendliest way. 3 put, place, slap, fling, toss, cast , Colloq stick: He had no sooner set foot in the town when he was clapped in jail. 4 impose, lay, apply: The magistrate clapped a severe fine on me for speeding. --n. 5 crack, slap, report, crash, bang, snap: There was a loud clap of thunder, making the house shake.
CLAW|0|n. 1 talon, nail: The cat had scratched her badly with its claws. --v. 2 scratch, tear, scrape, rake, slash: She clawed at his face to break his grip on her throat. 3 grapple, grab, catch, scrape, scrabble: He tried to climb up the embankment, clawing at the steep wall.
CLIP|0|v. 1 clasp, fasten, fix, attach, hold, clinch; staple: Please clip these papers together. --n. 2 clasp, fastener: That clip isn't strong enough to hold all these papers.
CLOD|0|n. 1 lump, mass, gob, wad, hunk, chunk; piece of sod or turf; Colloq glob: A clod of earth was stuck between the spikes of my golf shoes. 2 idiot, fool, dolt, blockhead, simpleton, dunce, dope, oaf, Neanderthal, lout, ass, boor, clown, ninny, ninny-hammer, bumpkin, clodhopper, Slang vegetable, US and Canadian jerk: He felt a bit of a clod standing there with no idea which way to go.
CLOG|0|v. hamper, encumber, impede; obstruct, choke (up), block, congest, jam: The road was clogged with returning holiday-makers. A piece of orange peel had clogged the sink drain.
CLUB|0|n. 1 cudgel, bat, bludgeon, mace, billy, truncheon, baton, staff, stick; cosh, Chiefly US and Canadian blackjack: The blow from the club required six stitches. 2 association, society, organization, fraternity, sorority, fellowship, brotherhood, sisterhood, federation, union, guild, lodge, alliance, league, order, consortium, company: Our sailing club holds an annual race. 3 clubhouse: The society's club is near Pall Mall. 4 nightclub, cabaret, Colloq nightspot: After the theatre, we stopped at Oscar's club for a nightcap. --v. 5 beat, cudgel, bludgeon, bat, belabour or US belabor; lambaste, baste, thrash, trounce: The guerrillas caught the traitor and clubbed him to death. 6 Often, club together. band or join or league (together), team (up), join forces, combine, ally, associate, confederate, cooperate: We clubbed together to purchase the antique clock.
CLUE|0|n. 1 hint, suspicion, trace, intimation, suggestion, inkling, indication, pointer, lead, tip, tip-off, evidence, information, advice; key, answer, indicator: There is no clue pointing to anyone in particular. Any clue to the solution of the mystery disappeared in the fire. --v. 2 clue someone in or Brit also up. hint, suggest, imply, intimate, inform, advise, indicate: She clued us in as to who might have sent the letter.
COAT|0|n. 1 overcoat, greatcoat; jacket, anorak, parka, Brit cagoule, Colloq Brit cag: Put on your coat, it's cold out. 2 coating, layer, covering, overlay; film: Two coats of paint ought to be enough. There was a coat of dust on everything. --v. 3 cover, paint, spread: We coated the floor with three layers of varnish.
CODE|0|n. 1 law(s), regulation(s), rule(s), jurisprudence, jus canonicum 'canon law', jus civile 'civil law', jus divinum 'divine law', jus gentium 'universal law', jus naturale 'natural law', corpus juris, pandect, lex non scripta 'common law, unwritten law', lex scripta 'statute law': In the present code there is no statute that forbids keeping a pet gnu. 2 cipher or cypher, cryptogram: Our agents send all their messages in code. 3 system, practice(s), convention(s), standard(s), criterion (criteria), principle(s), rule(s), maxim(s), custom(s), pattern(s), structure, tradition(s), organization, protocol, orthodoxy: Our code of behaviour is completely foreign to the islanders. --v. 4 encode, encipher or encypher, encrypt: It took an hour to code the information.
COIL|0|v. 1 wind, twist, coil, snake, wrap, enwrap, spiral, Nautical fake or flake (down): The rope is coiled round a capstan. --n. 2 winding(s), circle(s), loop, whorl, spiral, helix, twist: His foot caught in the coil of rope and he was carried overboard.
COIN|0|n. 1 specie, money, currency; change, cash, silver: I have only a few coins in my pocket. As he had no notes he had to pay in coin. --v. 2 mint, stamp: The US government has stopped coining silver dollars. 3 invent, create, conceive, originate, start, make up, fabricate, frame, concoct, think or dream up: James Joyce coined the word 'quark'. 4 coin it in or US only coin money. earn or make money, become wealthy, enrich oneself, Colloq rake it in: Those rock stars really coin it in from their record sales.
COLD|0|adj. 1 chill, chilly, frosty, icy, keen, nippy, freezing, frigid, ice-cold, stone-cold, bitter, bitter-cold, raw, biting, biting-cold, numbing, gelid; wintry, hibernal, brumal; arctic, glacial, polar, hyperborean or hyperboreal, Siberian: It was so cold that the canal had completely frozen over. 2 chilly, chilled; unheated, heatless: The room is cold; we'd better put the heating on. 3 indifferent, apathetic, chilly, chilling, cool, icy, dispassionate, unsympathetic, aloof, unresponsive, spiritless, frigid, unfriendly, uncordial, lukewarm, frigid; cold-blooded, insensitive, uncaring, unemotional, undemonstrative, reserved, unmoved, spiritless, callous, remote, distant, standoffish, unapproachable, stony-hearted, emotionless, unfeeling, cold-hearted: My ideas received rather a cold reception. Because she had offended him, he was quite cold to her. 4 depressing, cheerless, chilling, gloomy, dispiriting, deadening, disheartening, bleak, dismal, discouraging: The sweat stood out on his brow in cold apprehension. 5 unmoving, stale, trite, stereotyped; dead: The coldest word was once a glowing new metaphor. 6 weak, faint, stale, old, dead: The trail of the tiger had grown cold. 7 unprepared, unready: She hadn't studied and went into the exam cold. 8 Often, getting cold. far, distant, remote, off the track: As I searched for the weapon, I felt I was getting cold the further I went from the kitchen. --n. 9 coldness, frigidity, iciness: Last winter, the cold killed off many of our shrubs. 10 head or chest or common cold, influenza, ague, (la or the) grippe, Technical coryza, gravedo, Colloq sniffles, the flu, bug, sneezles and wheezles: I caught a cold waiting for you in the rain. --adv. 11 completely, thoroughly, entirely, absolutely, unhesitatingly, promptly, immediately, unreservedly, abruptly: His application to join the police was turned down cold.
COME|0|v. 1 approach, advance, (draw) near, move, Archaic or literary draw nigh: The car came towards us. She has come to me for comforting words. Winter is coming. 2 arrive, appear, make or put in an appearance, Colloq blow in, report (in), turn or show up, check in, sign in, clock on or in, roll in: Winter has come. When Cora comes, we'll ask her. 3 enter: Come into the light, where I can see you. 4 come about. a occur, happen, take place, come up; befall, Loosely transpire: I cannot imagine how this state of affairs came about. b Nautical tack, go about: After the marker, come about and hoist the spinnaker. 5 come across. a find, discover, encounter, meet (up or up with), run across or into, happen or chance upon or on, hit or light on or upon, stumble upon or on, Colloq bump into: I came across some information about Charles. b pay (up), settle; yield, give up, submit: Frank owes me money but refuses to come across. c be communicated or understandable, penetrate, sink in: I am not sure that my points came across. 6 come along. fare, do, progress, move along: How is William coming along at his new school? 7 come apart. disintegrate, crumble, fall or fly to pieces, separate, break (apart or up or down): The carburettor came apart in my hands. 8 come at. attack, assault, charge, rush (at), fly at, descend upon or on, Colloq go or make for: She came at me waving her umbrella. 9 come by. a acquire, obtain, get, procure, secure, find, take or get possession of, get or lay hold of, get or lay or put (one's) hands or US also fingers on; be given: The tax inspector wondered how she came by such valuable property. b win, earn, attain; be awarded: I came by that trophy fair and square. 10 come clean. See clean, 8, above. 11 come down on or upon. pounce on or upon, rebuke, criticize, revile, reprimand, bear down on, blame: Mother really came down on us when she discovered who had taken the pie. 12 come down with. succumb to, contract, catch, be stricken or afflicted with, acquire:...
COOL|0|adj. 1 chilly, chill, chilling, cooling, unheated; chilled, cold, refreshing, fresh: It's rather cool outside today. I'd prefer some cool lemonade. 2 calm, serene, collected, level-headed, quiet, unexcited, unemotional, undisturbed, unexcitable, unruffled, unflappable, cool-headed, relaxed, controlled, under control, self-possessed, self-controlled, unperturbed, phlegmatic, composed, imperturbable: He remains cool even in a crisis. 3 dispassionate, cold, cold-blooded, emotionless, deliberate, cold-hearted, calculated, wilful, premeditated, purposeful, purposive: It was clearly the cool act of a professional criminal. 4 uninvolved, distant, remote, aloof, detached, removed, uninterested, unconcerned, unsympathetic, apathetic, cold, cold-hearted, cold-blooded: How can you be so cool where human lives are concerned? 5 lukewarm, distant, uncordial, unfriendly, unsociable, unapproachable, standoffish, forbidding, unwelcoming, cold, frigid: After the affair, she was distinctly cool towards him. 6 bold, audacious, brazen, overconfident, presumptuous, shameless, unabashed, impertinent, impudent, insolent: I cannot account for the cool way he insulted his host. --n. 7 coolness, chill, chilliness, Colloq coolth: I shall have a sherry to ward off the cool of the evening. 8 aplomb, poise, sedateness, control, self-control, composure, sang-froid: He really lost his cool when she told him he was a lousy driver. --v. 9 chill, refrigerate, ice: Cool the pudding before serving. 10 diminish, reduce, lessen, abate, moderate: Her interest quickly cooled when she discovered he was married.
COPE|0|v. 1 manage, get along or by, make do, survive, subsist, come through: Even with seven children to care for, she copes very well. 2 cope with. be a match for, withstand, contend with or against, handle, deal with, dispose of: I cannot cope with all the work I have been given to do.
COPY|0|n. 1 reproduction, replica, facsimile, likeness, imitation, double, twin, duplication, duplicate, transcript, replication, carbon (copy), photocopy, print: She found a copy of the lost manuscript. 2 example, sample, specimen: How many copies of the book have been sold? 3 text, writing: The copy is ready; we are waiting for the illustrations. --v. 4 reproduce, duplicate, replicate, transcribe: Don't copy others' work - they might be wrong. 5 imitate, mimic, impersonate, emulate, ape, parrot, echo: Ted copies the rock stars in every possible detail of their dress and behaviour.
CORD|0|n. string, line, twine; rope: Tie the cord around the parcel twice.
CORE|0|n. 1 centre, heart, middle, nucleus, inside(s): Remove the core of the apple first. 2 essence, marrow, heart, pith, gist, quintessence, sum and substance: The core of the problem is her refusal to consider any alternative. --v. 3 pit, seed: The pie might have tasted better if you'd cored the apples first.
COST|0|n. 1 price, outlay, payment, charge, expense, expenditure, rate, tariff: The gold strap will double the cost of the watch. If the cost increases, the selling price must go up. --v. 2 sell for, get, fetch, bring in, Colloq set (someone) back: This would cost twice as much in London.
COSY|0|adj. 1 comfortable, snug, warm, restful, secure, relaxing, easy, US cozy, Colloq comfy: They bought a cosy little rose-covered cottage in the Cotswolds. 2 convenient, expedient, self-serving, underhand(ed): He has a cosy arrangement with the planning board.
CRAG|0|n. cliff, bluff, tor, peak, rock, escarpment, scarp, precipice, US palisade: Soaring above us was a huge crag that we still had to climb.
CRAM|0|v. 1 pack, stuff, overstuff, overcrowd, jam, fill: The car was crammed to the top with suitcases. 2 study, burn the midnight oil, Literary lucubrate, Colloq grind, Brit swot: Bob can't go out because he's cramming for an exam.
CREW|0|n. group, company, band, troupe, party, gang, team, corps, body: We shall need a crew of twenty for tomorrow's job.
CURB|0|n. 1 check, restraint, control: You should put a curb on your tongue. --v. 2 check, restrain, bridle, control, contain, repress, subdue, suppress: Try to curb your exuberance.
CURE|0|n. 1 course of treatment, therapy, remedy, medication, medicament, medicine, drug, prescription; cure-all, nostrum, panacea: The doctor said there was no cure for her illness. --v. 2 heal, mend, restore to health or working order, remedy, rectify, correct, repair, fix: What can't be cured must be endured. 3 smoke, pickle, dry, salt, preserve, corn, marinate: That cured ox tongue is simply delicious!
CURT|0|adj. abrupt, short, terse, brief, laconic, concise; blunt, gruff, harsh, brusque, unceremonious, snappish, crusty, rude: His answer was a curt 'No', without any explanation.
CUTE|0|adj. 1 pretty, attractive, adorable, dainty, lovely, beautiful, Colloq US cunning: There were a lot of cute children at the beauty competition. 2 clever, shrewd, ingenious, adroit, crafty, cunning: It was very cute of him to suggest his brother for the job.
DAFT|0|adj. 1 foolish, silly, giddy, senseless, absurd, ridiculous, stupid, nonsensical, fatuous, fatuitous, imbecile or imbecilic, idiotic, moronic, obtuse, cretinous, boneheaded, fat-headed, dim-witted, witless, asinine, attocerebral, weak-minded, simple-minded, brainless, feeble-minded, feather-brained, rattle-brained, hare-brained, slow-witted, halfwitted, fat-witted, addle-pated, addle-brained, Brit gormless; Colloq dumb, dopey or dopy, daffy; Slang cock-eyed, US cockamamie or cockamamy, running on 'Empty': He has the daft idea that he will be appointed managing director. 2 See crazy, 1, above. 3 daft about. mad about, infatuated with, besotted by or with, sweet on, Colloq nuts about, crazy about: Those two are daft about each other.
DAMN|0|v. 1 condemn, criticize, find fault with, berate, castigate, upbraid, attack, blast, reprimand, reprove, remonstrate, denounce; blame: Some would damn him for saving the murderer from drowning, others would damn him if he didn't. 2 doom, condemn, sentence: Sisyphus was damned for all eternity to roll a heavy stone up a hill. 3 curse (at), swear (at), execrate: I damned the day I first set foot in that house. --n. 4 jot or tittle, brass farthing, Slang hoot, two hoots (in hell), Slang tinker's damn or cuss: His opinion isn't worth a damn. 5 give a damn. care, mind, be concerned, worry, Slang give a hoot: Why should he give a damn if the critics panned his play?
DAMP|0|adj. 1 clammy, moist, wettish; humid, dank, misty, dewy, steamy, muggy: Wipe off the table with a damp cloth. Nothing dries out in this damp weather. --n. 2 moistness, moisture, dampness, clamminess, humidity: The mould on the walls is the result of the damp.
DARE|0|v. 1 challenge, defy, provoke; throw down the gauntlet: She dared me to jump, so I jumped. 2 risk, hazard, gamble, venture, face, make bold, be so bold as: I would never dare to talk to my father that way. --n. 3 challenge, provocation, taunt; ultimatum: She took the dare and swam across the lake.
DARK|0|adj. 1 unlit, unlighted, unilluminated, ill-lighted, ill-lit, sunless; black, Stygian, pitch-dark, inky, jet-black: We cowered in a recess in the dark cave. 2 dim, murky, tenebrous, shady, shadowy: I could scarcely see ahead of me in the dark forest. 3 gloomy, dismal, dreary, dull, drab, subfuscous, subfusc, bleak, cheerless, mournful, dour, pessimistic, sombre, doleful, joyless, grim, sad, melancholy, sorrowful: Why do you always look at the dark side of things? 4 evil, wicked, vile, base, foul, iniquitous, nefarious, black-hearted, villainous, sinister, satanic, devilish, hellish: Nostradamus predicted that dark forces would overrun the world. 5 murky, overcast, cloudy, threatening, black, dusky, louring or lowering; foggy, misty; US glowering: Another dark day on the moor and I thought I'd go mad. 6 mysterious, deep, profound, incomprehensible, enigmatic, puzzling, impenetrable, unfathomable, abstruse, recondite, arcane, obscure: She took her dark secret to the grave. 7 hidden, concealed, secret, occult, mystic(al), cryptic: The true reason for his leaving was always kept dark in the family. 8 brunette; black, swarthy, brown; (sun)tanned, Old-fashioned swart: One is fair with dark hair, the other has dark skin. 9 ignorant, unenlightened, benighted: Our culture passed through a dark phase before the Renaissance. --n. 10 night, night-time, nightfall: We waited till dark to make good our escape. 11 darkness, blackness, gloom, gloominess, murk, murkiness: At fifty, isn't he a bit old to be afraid of the dark? 12 obscurity, ignorance: She was always kept in the dark about his true identity.
DASH|0|v. 1 crash, smash, shatter, break, shiver, fragment, split; destroy, ruin, spoil, frustrate, obliterate: The mirror was dashed to smithereens when it fell. The ship didn't see our raft, and our hopes of rescue were dashed. 2 hurl, toss, throw, fling, cast, pitch, Colloq chuck: We drank a toast, then dashed our glasses into the fireplace. 3 rush, run, dart, spring, bolt, bound, race, sprint; hasten, fly, hurry, speed: I'll have to dash to catch my train. 4 dash off. scribble: I've just dashed off a note to mother. --n. 5 dart, bolt, rush, run, spurt, spring, bound, sprint: He made a dash for the door but it was too late. 6 flourish, ÷lan, flair, liveliness, style, panache, spirit, brio, verve, zest, spice; ardour, fervour, vigour, energy: She is known for her beauty as well as her dash and courage. 7 bit, pinch, soupúon, hint, suggestion, touch, trace, tinge, taste, drop, piece, Colloq smidgen or smidgin, US tad: Add a dash of nutmeg at the end.
DATA|0|n. facts, information, statistics, figures, details, matter, observations, material(s); text; evidence: We shall process the data on the computer and print out the results.
DATE|0|n. 1 time, year, season, period, day; age, era, epoch, stage, phase: These artefacts are from an earlier date than was first supposed. 2 appointment, meeting, engagement, rendezvous, assignation, tryst; fixture: She already has a date for Saturday night. 3 escort, companion, friend, boyfriend, girlfriend, girl, woman, boy, man, swain, beau, lover, Colloq steady: Bob is Sally's date for the dance. 4 out of date. old-fashioned, old, ancient, archaic, antiquated, dated, pass÷, outmoded, obsolete, obsolescent, Colloq old hat: This timetable is out of date. Why do you wear those out of date clothes? 5 up to date. modern, latest, current, contemporary, å la mode, fashionable, Colloq trendy: Her taste in music is quite up to date. Use this up-to-date edition of the encyclopedia. --v. 6 show one's age, make obsolete or obsolescent or old-fashioned: That pompadour hair-do really dates her. 7 entertain, escort, go out (with), go steady (with): Does Michael still date Patsy? Those two are still dating.
DAWN|0|n. 1 daybreak, sunrise, break of day, crack of dawn, first light, dawning, cock crow, Literary aurora, day-spring, US sun-up: We shall attack the castle at dawn. 2 dawning, beginning, commencement, start, birth, awakening, inception, genesis, outset, onset, origin, appearance, arrival, advent, emergence, inauguration, rise, first occurrence: The dawn of western civilization has been placed in Anatolia. --v. 3 gleam, break, brighten, lighten: The day dawned on the deserted beach. 4 begin, originate, commence, arise, appear, emerge, start, arrive, develop, unfold: The day of the computer had not yet dawned when I was a child. 5 dawn on or upon. occur to, come to mind, become apparent or evident to: It slowly dawned on me that he had been lying all along.
DAZE|0|v. 1 stun, stupefy, blind, dazzle, bedazzle, shock, stagger, startle, astonish, astound, amaze, surprise, overcome, overpower, dumbfound, benumb, paralyse, Colloq bowl over, floor, flabbergast; Slang blow one's mind: She was dazed to learn her husband was still alive. 2 befuddle, confuse, bemuse, bewilder, puzzle, mystify, baffle, perplex, nonplus, blind: He was dazed by the difficulty of the examination. --n. 3 confusion, flurry, spin, whirl: The entire week was a continuous daze of cocktail parties and dinner parties. 4 in a daze. stupefied, in a trance, bewildered, confused, perplexed, disoriented, dizzy, dazzled, bedazzled, overcome, overpowered, nonplussed, befuddled, flustered; startled, surprised, shocked, stunned, astonished, astounded, amazed, staggered; bemused, baffled, puzzled, mystified, Colloq flabbergasted, bowled over, floored: Arthur was in a daze to find himself the centre of attention.
DBUT|0|n. 1 premiëre, introduction, initiation, inauguration, launch or launching, coming out: The young soprano's d÷but at La Scala was a triumph. --v. 2 launch, come out, enter, appear: His plan is to d÷but with a zither accompaniment.
DEAD|0|adj. 1 deceased, defunct, extinct, gone, departed, late, lifeless, no more, Colloq done for, Slang Brit gone for a burton: Both his parents are dead, and his only brother lives in Australia. Lycidas is dead, dead ere his prime. 2 insensate, insensible, numb, paralysed, benumbed, unfeeling: After the accident, my left thumb was completely dead. 3 insensible, unconscious, out, dead to the world, deathlike, deathly: At the news of her son, she fell in a dead faint. 4 insensitive, unemotional, unfeeling, emotionless, apathetic, lukewarm, cool, cold, frigid, unresponsive, unsympathetic, indifferent, unconcerned, uninterested; numb, wooden, callous, hardened, impervious, inured, inert: He has always been dead to others' problems. 5 out, smothered, extinguished: The fire is dead. 6 inanimate, lifeless, inert, inorganic: Dead stones speak volumes to the geologist. 7 extinct, obsolete, perished, past, outmoded, disused, expired, pass÷: Latin is a dead language. 8 barren, unfruitful, infertile, unproductive: That area off the coast is dead as far as fishing goes. 9 tired (out), exhausted, worn out, fatigued, tired out, spent, collapsing, in a state of collapse, Slang bushed, beat, Brit knackered, US and Canadian pooped: We were completely dead after the hike into town. 10 dull, lustreless, flat, neutral, vapid, empty, bland, colourless, grey, beige, dun: The walls of the prison were painted a dead white. 11 stagnant, motionless, still, standing, static, inert, unmoving, inactive, quiet, calm: There were small pools of dead water covered with a green slime. Without a breath of air stirring, the boat was dead in the water. 12 boring, dull, tedious, tiresome, monotonous, prosaic, uninteresting, run-of-the-mill, ordinary, commonplace, dry, insipid, bland, flat, two-dimensional, lifeless, stiff, rigid, stony: The play was bad, the performance dead. 13 dull, muffled, deadened, anechoic, unresounding, non-resonant: One room in the laboratory was built to be dead to all sound. 14 co...
DEAF|0|adj. 1 hard of hearing, stone-deaf: Sean is slightly deaf in his left ear. 2 unhearing, unheedful, heedless, insensible, insensitive, impervious, indifferent, oblivious, unresponsive, unmoved, unconcerned, unyielding: The judge was deaf to all appeals for clemency.
DEAL|0|v. 1 distribute, dole out, give out, parcel out, mete out, allot, apportion, administer, dispense: Deal thirteen cards to each of the four players. She dealt out her own brand of justice to criminals. 2 buy and sell, handle, stock, do business, trade, traffic: This shop deals only in the most expensive linens. 3 behave, act, conduct oneself: Simon has never dealt openly, so you mustn't trust him. 4 deal with. treat, handle, take care of, have to do with, attend to, see to, reckon with, grapple with, act on; practise, administer, engage in: I shall deal with the matter tomorrow. --n. 5 transaction, arrangement, negotiation, agreement, contract, bargain, understanding: The deal to sell the textbook division is off. 6 Often, great deal. (large or great) amount, lot, (large or huge) quantity; extent: There's been a great deal of crime in that neighbourhood.
DEAR|0|adj. 1 beloved, loved, adored, darling, precious, cherished, prized, valued, treasured, favoured, favourite, pet, esteemed, admired, venerated, honoured: He was my nearest and dearest friend. 2 expensive, costly, high-priced, highly priced, Colloq pricey: Tomatoes are much too dear at this time of the year. --n. 3 darling, sweetheart, beloved, love, true-love, sweet, honey, precious, pet, favourite, treasure, precious, Colloq sweetie, sweetie-pie, Slang baby: My dear, I hope we'll be together always. --adv. 4 dearly; at great cost or expense, at a high or excessive price: That little error will cost you dear, my friend.
DEBT|0|n. 1 obligation; due, indebtedness, liability, responsibility, accountability, encumbrance: He owes a debt of gratitude to his wife for her moral support. The company takes care of all debts promptly. 2 in debt. under obligation, owing, accountable, beholden, indebted, responsible, answerable for, liable, encumbered, in arrears, straitened, in dire straits, in (financial) difficulty or difficulties, in the red, Colloq US and Canadian in hock: I shall always be in debt to you for your help. The London branch is in debt for ten million pounds.
DEED|0|n. 1 act, action; performance: Their deeds did not match their promises. 2 exploit, feat, achievement, accomplishment: We are here to honour her for her many deeds, both on and off the tennis court. 3 title(-deed), document, instrument, indenture, contract, agreement: The bank holds the title-deed until the mortgage is paid off.
DEEP|0|adj. 1 extensive, bottomless, abyssal, unfathomable, profound; wide, broad, yawning, chasmal or chasmic: All our supplies were lost in a deep crevasse in the glacier. 2 profound, arcane, recondite, difficult, abstruse, obscure, esoteric, incomprehensible, beyond or past comprehension, impenetrable, unfathomable, inscrutable, mysterious, mystic(al), occult, weighty, serious, Colloq heavy: Religious philosophy is too deep a subject to discuss at breakfast. 3 wise, learned, sage, sagacious, astute, perspicacious, profound, discerning, acute, intense, penetrating, knowledgeable, knowing: Margaret is one of the deepest thinkers on the subject. 4 rapt, absorbed, engrossed, occupied, preoccupied, intent, intense, involved, engaged, immersed, lost, Colloq into: Don't disturb him when he's deep in thought. 5 devious, cunning, shrewd, crafty, canny, clever, knowing, scheming, artful, designing: He thinks there is a deep plot against him. 6 profound, intense, sincere, serious, heartfelt, earnest, ardent, fervent, poignant, deep-rooted: I know of your deep concern for her. 7 low, resonant, booming, resounding, sonorous, rumbling: The deep sound of thunder rolled across the valley. 8 rich, dark, intense, strong: The sky was a deep blue. --n. 9 the deep. the ocean, the main, the sea, the waters, the high seas, the briny (deep), the wave(s), Davy Jones's locker, Neptune's or Poseidon's kingdom or domain: It was midnight on the waters and a storm was on the deep. --adv. 10 deeply, far down, profoundly, intensely, earnestly, heavily: We drank deep of the cooling liquid.
DEFY|0|v. 1 challenge, dare, face, confront, brave, stand up to, flout, brazen out, thumb one's nose at, Colloq Brit cock a snook at: The defendant defied the prosecutor to prove the allegations. 2 frustrate, thwart, baffle, resist, withstand, repel, disobey, repulse: Her feats of legerdemain defy the imagination. Copeley has invented a device that defies the law of gravity.
DENY|0|v. 1 contradict, gainsay, refute, controvert, disaffirm, disclaim, confute, negate, dispute: She denies ever having met the defendant. 2 reject, refuse, withhold, forbid, turn down, decline, disallow; recall, revoke, recant: He asserts that his right to counsel was denied. 3 disavow, repudiate, renounce, disown, forswear, disclaim: The witch-doctor demanded sacrifices, saying that the angry gods would not be denied.
DIET|0|n. 1 fare, food, nourishment, nutriment, sustenance, subsistence, victuals, intake, aliment: A well-balanced diet is very important. 2 regimen, regime: She is on a diet of bread and water. --v. 3 fast, abstain; slim; reduce: I am dieting to lose weight.
DINE|0|v. eat, banquet, feast, sup, break bread, breakfast, lunch, have a bite or snack, nibble, Colloq feed, Slang nosh: We'll dine at 8.00, so don't be late.
DIRT|0|n. 1 soil, mud, muck, mire, grime, slime, sludge, ooze, slop; dust, soot; excrement, ordure; filth, waste, refuse, trash, garbage, rubbish, offal, junk, dross, sweepings; leavings, scrap, orts; Slang Brit gunge, US grunge: This vacuum cleaner is guaranteed to pick up any kind of dirt. 2 soil, earth, loam, ground, clay: Hydroponics is the technique of farming without dirt, using only liquid nutrients. 3 indecency, obscenity, smut, pornography, foulness, corruption, filth, vileness: Customs confiscated much of the dirt before it could enter the country. 4 gossip, scandal, talk, rumour, inside information , Colloq low-down, dope, Slang US scuttlebutt: I got the dirt from David about what really happened at the party.
DIVE|0|v. 1 plunge, nosedive, sound, descend, dip, submerge, go under, sink; jump, leap, duck; swoop, plummet: The submarine dived at once. --n. 2 plunge, nosedive: The plane went into a dive. 3 bar, saloon, nightclub, bistro, club, Colloq nightspot, Slang joint, US dump, honky-tonk, juke-joint: He met the woman in a dive in Limehouse.
DOCK|0|n. 1 wharf, pier, berth, jetty, quay: We went to the dock to see them off. --v. 2 (drop) anchor, berth, tie up, moor, land, put in: The ship docks at noon.
DOLE|0|n. 1 portion, allotment, share, quota, lot, allowance, parcel; compensation, benefit, grant, award, donation, gift, largesse, alms, gratuity; Slang hand-out: The prisoners received a daily dole of bread. If you've lost your job, are you eligible for the dole? 2 distribution, apportionment, allocation, dispensation: The money was given to the disaster victims by dole. --v. 3 give (out), deal (out), distribute, hand out, mete out, share (out), dispense, allot, allocate, apportion, Colloq dish out: They dole out the reparations on the basis of need.
DOLT|0|n. fool, ass, blockhead, dunce, dullard, idiot, nitwit, ignoramus, numskull or numbskull, donkey, nincompoop, ninny, ninny-hammer, simpleton, dunderpate, dunderhead, bonehead, simpleton, twit, fat-head, goon, moron, imbecile, Colloq dope, dumb-bell, dim-wit, chump, dummy, halfwit, birdbrain, pinhead, clot, clod, chucklehead, Brit muggins, US thimble-wit, jerk, knuckle-head, lunkhead, meat-head, lame-brain, dingbat, ding-a-ling, flake: The dolt actually tried to buy striped paint!
DOOM|0|n. fate, karma, destiny, fortune, lot, kismet; downfall, destruction, death, ruin, extinction, annihilation, death, end, termination, terminus: The young warrior had defied the Snake God, and his doom was sealed.
DOPE|0|n. 1 See dolt. 2 narcotic, drug, opiate, hallucinogen, psychedelic, Slang upper, downer: He was caught trying to smuggle dope past customs. 3 information, data, facts, news, details, story, scoop, Slang info, low-down, score, Brit gen, US and Canadian poop: The real dope on the minister is sensational!
DOSE|0|n. 1 portion, quantity, amount, measure, dosage: How big a dose of the medication did the doctor prescribe? --v. 2 dispense, administer, prescribe: I was dosed with medicine and slept all day.
DOTE|0|v. Often, dote on or upon. be fond of, be infatuated with, love, idolize, hold dear, adore, make much of; coddle, pamper, spoil, indulge: I think she dotes on her husband at the expense of the children. What we need is a doting grandmother to babysit when we want to go out.
DOUR|0|adj. 1 sullen, sour, unfriendly, cold, gloomy, morose, dreary, grim, cheerless, dismal, forbidding: We went to Spain, away from the dour northern climate. 2 hard, tough, austere, severe, hardy, inflexible, obstinate, stubborn, unyielding, uncompromising, strict, rigid, obdurate, stern, harsh, adamant, Colloq hard-nosed: Her father was a dour Scot who wouldn't let me in the house.
DOZE|0|v. 1 Often, doze off. (take or have a) nap, catnap, drowse, sleep, slumber, Colloq snooze, have forty winks, drop or nod off, grab some shut-eye, Chiefly Brit (have or take a) zizz, Brit kip, US catch or log a few zees (Z's): I was dozing in the sun when the phone rang. --n. 2 nap, catnap, siesta, sleep; rest; Colloq snooze, forty winks, shut-eye, Brit zizz, kip, lie-down: I'll have a short doze before dinner.
DRAB|0|adj. dull, colourless, dreary, dingy, lacklustre, lustreless, dismal, cheerless, grey, sombre: She wore drab clothes and no make-up.
DRAG|0|v. 1 pull, draw, haul, tow, tug, trail, lug: It took the two of us to drag the desk into the other office. 2 pull, distract, draw; induce, persuade, coax, wheedle: She's been unable to drag him away from the TV. 3 trudge, slog, crawl, creep, inch, shuffle, shamble: He's looking for a job and just drags along from one employment agency to another. 4 trail (behind), linger, dawdle, lag (behind), straggle, draggle, potter, loiter, poke (along), dilly-dally, US lallygag: She just drags along after us wherever we go. 5 (be) prolong(ed), (be) extend(ed), (be)draw(n) out, (be) protract(ed), (be) stretch(ed) out, spin out or be spun out: Why drag out the agony of uncertainty any longer? His speech dragged on for another hour. 6 drag one's feet or heels. delay, procrastinate, hang back; obstruct, block, stall: The committee is dragging its feet on the housing issue. --n. 7 bore, nuisance, annoyance; pest; Colloq drip, pain (in the neck), headache: That course in botany is a real drag.
DRAW|0|v. 1 pull, tug, tow, drag, haul, lug: The gypsy caravan was drawn by two horses. 2 pull or take out, extract; unsheathe, unholster: The cowboy drew his gun and began firing. 3 draw off; pour; drain off or out: She drew two pails of water for the horses. 4 attract, gather, allure, lure, bring out or forth, elicit, Colloq pull: Anything will draw a crowd in New York. 5 depict, sketch, portray, outline, delineate, design, limn, paint: The artist was drawing pictures in chalk on the pavement. 6 devise, draw up, draft, create, contrive, frame, compose, prepare: The plans for the new civic centre have not yet been drawn. 7 inhale, breathe (in), inspire; suck in: She's very ill and may draw her last breath any minute. 8 draw out, withdraw, take, receive, get, acquire, obtain, secure, procure, extract, remove: I have to draw some money from my bank account for groceries. 9 choose, pick, select, take: It is your turn to draw a card. 10 draw back. retreat, recoil, shrink (from), withdraw: He drew back quickly when he saw the snake. 11 draw in. arrive, pull in: The train drew in to the station. 12 draw off. a tap, pour: The barmaid drew off two large beers from the keg. b withdraw, draw or go away, depart, leave: The Indians drew off and waited to see what we would do. 13 draw on. a employ, use, make use of, exploit, have resort or recourse to, resort to, fall back on, rely or depend on: She drew on her years of experience as a doctor. b come close or near, near, draw nigh, approach, advance: With the cold season drawing on, we had to get in the crops. 14 draw out. a extend, drag out, prolong, protract, lengthen, stretch, spin out: Her visit has been drawn out to a week. b elicit, evoke, induce to talk: I drew him out on his feelings about social security. c See 8, above. 15 draw up. a halt, stop, pull up or over: A taxi drew up and I got in. b draft, compose, prepare, put down (in writing), frame, compile, put together, formulate: We drew up the agreement only yesterday. c ar...
DRIP|0|v. 1 dribble, trickle, drop; drizzle, sprinkle: The tap began to drip and kept me awake all night. --n. 2 dribble, trickle, drop, dripping: Yes, it was the drip from the tap that kept me awake. 3 milksop, bore, wet blanket, killjoy, damper, Colloq Brit wet, weed, Colloq wimp, Slang pill, drag, US and Canadian milquetoast: Must you invite that drip George?
DROP|0|n. 1 globule, bead, drip, droplet, tear: A drop of sweat hung from his nose. 2 bit, spot, particle, taste, dram, sip, nip, pinch, dash, dab, Colloq smidgen or smidgin: Add a drop of milk before kneading the dough. 3 descent, fall: There was a sheer drop of a thousand feet from the ledge into the chasm below. 4 decline, slope, fall-off, drop-off, declivity, incline: The drop is about 15 feet in 100. --v. 5 drip, trickle, dribble: As the water drops, filling the tube, the float rises. 6 fall, descend, sink, drop away or down or off, dive, plunge, plummet, decline, collapse: The barometer dropped 10 millibars in 10 minutes. Near that rock, the road drops to the beach. At the first shot, we dropped to the ground. 7 desert, forsake, give up, abandon, leave, quit, throw over, jilt, discard, reject, repudiate, renounce, Colloq chuck, ditch, dump; relinquish, let go, discontinue, stop, cease, end: After what he said, she dropped him like a hot potato. I wish you'd drop the subject of my disability. 8 release, let go of, shed, cast off, discard, doff: Deciduous trees drop their leaves in winter. 9 omit, leave out, exclude, eliminate: To avoid confusion with his father, he dropped his middle initial. 10 dismiss, let go, fire, discharge, oust, Colloq chiefly Brit sack, give (someone) the sack: They dropped her after a week's trial. 11 decline, decrease, drop or fall off, diminish, slacken, slack or taper off, subside, lessen: Demand for swimsuits drops during the winter. 12 drop in (on). visit, call (on), pop in (on), come by, stop in: Viola dropped in for tea yesterday. 13 drop out. withdraw (from), leave; rusticate, depart, decamp, go away or off, take off, turn off: She dropped out of school. After winning the award, Crater dropped out and hasn't been seen since.
DRUG|0|n. 1 medication, medicine, medicament, pharmaceutical, remedy, cure, treatment; cure-all, panacea: My doctor prescribes too many drugs. 2 opiate, narcotic, stimulant, tranquillizer, antidepressant, hallucinogen(ic), psychedelic, hypnotic, soporific, sedative, analgesic, painkiller, Slang dope, downer, upper: Can they control the traffic in drugs? --v. 3 dose, medicate, treat: I was drugged with antihistamines and unable to drive. 4 anaesthetize, dope, deaden, knock out, sedate, stupefy, numb, benumb, dull, narcotize; poison, Slang slip (someone) a Mickey (Finn): The victim had been drugged and kidnapped.
DUDE|0|n. 1 dandy, fop, fancy dresser, Beau Brummell, popinjay, boulevardier, man about town, Archaic coxcomb, macaroni; Slang swell, Brit toff: He dressed like a real dude - zoot suit and all. 2 man, fellow, chap, Colloq guy: Hey, man, who's that dude in the tartan suit?
DUES|0|n.pl. (membership) fee, charge(s): If you have not paid your dues, you may not use the club's facilities.
DUFF|0|adj. bad, useless, worthless, unworkable, inoperable, inoperative, broken; fake, false, counterfeit, Colloq dud, phoney or US also phony: We couldn't get that duff radio to work. We were provided with duff papers for crossing the border.
DULL|0|adj. 1 stupid, slow-witted, dense, stolid, bovine, cloddish, clod-like, backward, obtuse, doltish, crass, dumb, Colloq thick, dim, dim-witted, Brit dim as a Toc H lamp: He might be a dull student but he's a brilliant artist. 2 insensitive, numb, insensible, imperceptive or impercipient, unresponsive, indifferent, unfeeling, unsympathetic, callous, hardened, hard, inured, obtundent: He knew that he could expect only a dull response to his pleading. 3 lifeless, indifferent, unresponsive, sluggish, slow, listless, inactive, torpid: The market for luxury cars is a little dull now. 4 boring, tiresome, tedious, monotonous, uninspired, uninspiring, unoriginal, uninteresting, humdrum: All work and no play make Jack a dull boy. 5 dismal, dreary, depressing, sombre, grey, dark, murky, gloomy, cloudy, clouded, overcast, sunless: If the day is dull, the photographs will show it. 6 blunted, blunt; obtuse: I nicked myself with that dull razor. 7 hazy, blurry, opaque, drab: Rub the dull film off that silver goblet. 8 muffled, numbing, deadened, muted, indistinct: I've had a dull pain in my arm all day. --v. 9 allay, assuage, relieve, mitigate, lessen, reduce: Weeping dulls the inner pain. 10 dim, tarnish, obscure, bedim, blur, cloud, becloud: A mist dulled the rich colours of the glen. 11 stupefy, narcotize, numb, benumb, desensitize, deaden, blunt, obtund: His war experiences had dulled his feelings towards others.
DULY|0|adv. 1 properly, fittingly, deservedly, appropriately, suitably, befittingly, rightly, correctly, accordingly: Those elected were duly installed in office. 2 punctually, on time: The train duly arrived.
DUMB|0|adj. 1 mute, speechless, voiceless; silent, quiet, taciturn, mum, wordless; inarticulate: She was struck dumb with astonishment. 2 dull, stupid, Colloq thick: He's too dumb to understand what you are saying.
DUMP|0|v. 1 unload, offload, empty, drop, deposit, throw or fling down, tip: They dumped the topsoil all over the path. 2 get rid of, throw away, scrap, discard, ditch, jettison, dispose of, reject, tip, toss out or away, Colloq junk, chuck out or away: We dumped all the food when the fridge broke down. --n. 3 junk-yard, rubbish heap or Brit tip, US garbage dump: You'll have to take this garden refuse to the dump.
DUNG|0|n. manure, muck, droppings, cow-pats, fertilizer, guano, excrement, faeces or US feces, US cow or buffalo-chips, horse-apples, Taboo shit: The dung is spread on the fields.
DUPE|0|n. 1 fool, gull, victim, fair game, Colloq chump, Chiefly US and Canadian fall guy; Slang sucker, sap, boob, pushover, pigeon, mark, Brit mug, Chiefly US and Canadian patsy: Swindlers often choose tourists as likely dupes. 2 cat's-paw, pawn, tool, puppet, Slang stooge: I'm not going to be the dupe in your little game! --v. 3 deceive, fool, outwit, cheat, trick, take in, defraud, humbug, hoax, swindle, hoodwink, bilk, gull, cozen, delude, mislead, snooker, victimize, Colloq bamboozle, flimflam, put one over on, pull a fast one on; Slang con, rip off, rook, take, US and Canadian snow, do a snow job on: She was duped into believing she had won the lottery.
DUSK|0|n. twilight, sundown, nightfall, evening, sunset, dark, eventide: The workers came in from the fields at dusk.
DUTY|0|n. 1 responsibility, obligation, burden, onus, devoir, office, work, task, assignment, job, stint, chore, occupation, calling, function, role, part, bit, charge: Every man is expected to do his duty. 2 respect, deference, loyalty, fealty, fidelity, faithfulness, allegiance: I think she did it out of a sense of duty to her family. 3 tax, excise, tariff, impost, levy, customs: You will have to pay duty on that whisky.
EARN|0|v. 1 merit, deserve, be worthy of, be entitled to, win, warrant, rate, qualify for, have a claim or right to: Peter has earned everyone's respect. 2 make, pocket, gross, net, clear, realize, receive, get, procure, collect, reap, bring in, take home; draw, Colloq US pull down: It is still the case that most men earn more than their wives.
EASE|0|n. 1 comfort, repose, well-being, relaxation, leisure, rest, contentment, calmness, tranquillity, serenity, peacefulness, peace, peace and quiet: After 50 years of hard work, she felt entitled to a few years of ease. 2 easiness, simplicity, facility, effortlessness, adeptness: He passed the other runners with ease. 3 affluence, wealth, prosperity, luxury, opulence, abundance, plenty: He has always led a life of ease, never having had to work. 4 naturalness, informality, unaffectedness, ingenuousness, casualness, artlessness, insouciance, nonchalance, aplomb; unconcern: I admire the ease with which she converses with complete strangers. --v. 5 comfort, relax, calm, tranquillize, quieten, still, pacify, soothe, disburden: It eased his mind to learn that there was a reserve budget for emergencies. 6 lessen, diminish, abate, mitigate, reduce, decrease, allay, alleviate, assuage, mollify, appease, palliate, quiet, relieve: Her anxiety was considerably eased by the news that John would not need an operation after all. 7 manoeuvre, manipulate, inch, guide, steer, slip: The helmsman eased the ship into dock. 8 facilitate, expedite, simplify, smooth, further, clear, assist, aid, advance, forward, help: Having a wealthy father eased her way in life.
EASY|0|adj. 1 simple, effortless, plain, clear, straightforward, hands down, uncomplicated, elementary, foolproof; easy as pie, easy as can be: Feeding goldfish is an easy job that children can undertake for themselves. 2 carefree, easygoing, casual, lenient, undemanding, relaxed, quiet, serene, restful, tranquil, peaceful, untroubled, undisturbed, unoppressive, gentle, mild, calm, comfortable, cosy, unhurried, leisurely: He has a pretty easy life now that he's retired. 3 light, lenient, undemanding, mild, flexible, indulgent, tolerant: You really should be easy on him after what he's been through. 4 tractable, pliant, docile, compliant, submissive, acquiescent, amenable, accommodating, soft, suggestible, credulous, trusting, weak, easygoing: He was an easy victim for confidence tricksters. She has the reputation of being a woman of easy virtue. 5 unstrained, gentle, moderate, unhurried, leisurely, even, steady, undemanding, comfortable, unexacting: They kept up an easy pace of about five miles a hour. 6 affable, friendly, amiable, amicable, agreeable, outgoing, informal, unceremonious, down-to-earth, unreserved, relaxing, natural, relaxed, easygoing: We found them easy to be with. --adv. 7 effortlessly; calmly, unexcitedly, temperately, peacefully, tranquilly, serenely, nonchalantly, casually: Take it easy and don't get so worked up about things.
ECHO|0|n. 1 reverberation, repercussion, repetition, iteration, reiteration: The echo of the church bells could be heard throughout the valley. 2 imitation, copy, replica or replication, duplication, reproduction, simulation, facsimile; reflection, mirror image, repetition: Modern Rome is but a feeble echo of its glorious past. --v. 3 resound, reverberate, ring: The hall echoed with children's laughter. 4 imitate, ape, parrot, mimic, copy, duplicate, reproduce, simulate, repeat, emulate, mirror, reflect: The poems are unoriginal and merely echo the works of others.
EDDY|0|n. 1 swirl, whirl, vortex, gurgitation; whirlpool, maelstrom, Charybdis; dust devil, whirlwind, twister, tornado, cyclone, typhoon, hurricane; waterspout: These treacherous eddies are caused by tidal changes. --v. 2 swirl, whirl, turn, spin: The wind eddied round us, driving the dinghy this way and that.
EDGE|0|n. 1 brink, verge, border, side, rim, lip, brim; fringe, margin, boundary, bound, limit, bourn, perimeter, periphery: I was hanging on to the very edge of the cliff. The edge of the handkerchief was trimmed with lace. 2 acuteness, sharpness, keenness: That hunting knife has quite an edge. 3 harshness, sharpness, acrimony, pungency, force, urgency, effectiveness, incisiveness, causticity, virulence, vehemence: There was an edge to her voice when she told me not to bother her. 4 advantage, head start, superiority, lead, upper hand: You're holding the gun, so I guess you have the edge on me. 5 on edge. on tenterhooks, nervous, touchy, sensitive, prickly, itchy, tense, irascible, crabbed, irritable, peevish, apprehensive, with one's heart in one's mouth, edgy, anxious, ill at ease, restive, restless, fidgety, Colloq uptight, like a cat on a hot tin roof: She was on edge waiting for the exam results. --v. 6 inch, move, sidle, crawl, creep, steal, worm, work (one's way): The burglar was edging along the wall, 30 storeys above the street.
EDIT|0|v. 1 redact, copy-edit, rewrite, rephrase, modify, alter, adapt, change, revise, correct, emend, style, restyle, polish, touch up: His job is to edit the stories into idiomatic English. 2 Often, edit out. blue-pencil, cut (out), delete, censor, erase, bleep, blip; bowdlerize, expurgate, clean up: They edited out all his slanderous asides before broadcasting the interview. 3 cut, condense, compress, shorten, crop, reduce: The story has to be edited so that it fits on one page. 4 prepare, compile, assemble, select, arrange, organize, order, reorganize, reorder: Margoliouth edited the collected letters of Andrew Marvell.
EMIT|0|v. discharge, eject, expel, emanate, send out or forth, pour out or forth, give off or out, issue, vent, radiate; exhale; exude, ooze: The factory has been emitting toxic gases into the atmosphere.
ENVY|0|n. 1 jealousy, enviousness, resentment: She was consumed with envy of anyone who had more money than she did. 2 covetousness, desire, longing: Success excites my envy. --v. 3 covet, begrudge, resent: He envies his brother and his new car.
ETCH|0|v. 1 engrave, incise, carve, inscribe, grave, cut, score, scratch, corrode, eat into: After the design has been painted on, acid is used to etch the metal plate. 2 impress, imprint, engrave, ingrain: The scene will be etched into my memory forever.
EVEN|0|adj. 1 smooth, flat, plane, level, regular, uniform, flush, straight, true: Sand the edges till they are even. 2 Sometimes, even with. level or uniform (with), coextensive (with), flush (with), parallel (with or to): Make sure that the lines at the bottom of the columns are even. Is that board even with the others? 3 steady, regular, consistent, constant, uniform, unvaried, unvarying, methodical, unchanging, set, equable, stable, measured, metrical, rhythmical, orderly, ordered, monotonous, unbroken, uninterrupted: We walked along at an even pace. 4 even-tempered, calm, equable, composed, placid, serene, peaceful, cool, tranquil, unruffled, imperturbable, undisturbed, impassive, steady, temperate, equanimous, self-possessed, sober, staid, sedate, sober-sided: People of even disposition are unexcited, unexcitable, and unexciting. 5 balanced, equal, the same, identical, coequal, level, drawn, on a par, tied, neck and neck; equivalent, Colloq fifty-fifty, Brit level pegging, US even Steven: At half-time the scores were even. I have an even chance of getting the job. 6 square, quits, equal: If I pay for this round, we'll be even. 7 fair (and square), square, impartial, disinterested, neutral, just, even-handed, equitable, straightforward, on the level, honest, upright, unbiased, unprejudiced: See that you make an even distribution of the food parcels. 8 exact, precise, round, rounded off or out or up or down: The bill came to an even fifty pounds. 9 get even (with). repay, revenge oneself (on), even or settle accounts or the score (with), requite, reciprocate, retaliate, be revenged: I'll get even with her for telling my mother. Whenever he feels that he's been insulted, he wants to get even. --adv. 10 still, yet; all the (more), indeed, (more) than ever: He is even dumber than I thought. He is in debt to everyone, even his daughter. 11 Sometimes, even with or though. notwithstanding, despite, in spite of, disregarding: Even with delays, we arrived on time. 12 even so. ...
EVER|0|adv. 1 at all, (at) any time, at any point or period, on any occasion, in any case, by any chance: Do you ever visit London? 2 always, for ever, yet, still, even, at all times, in all cases, eternally, perpetually, endlessly, everlastingly, constantly, continuously, continually, for ever and a day, till the end of time, till the cows come home, till doomsday; all the time: He is ever the one to make us laugh. Literacy is becoming ever more important.
EVIL|0|adj. 1 bad, awful, wrong, immoral, wicked, sinful, nefarious, iniquitous, base, corrupt, vile, accursed, damnable, villainous, heinous, infamous, flagitious, foul, nasty, abominable, atrocious, horrible, horrid, ghastly, grisly, dreadful, depraved, vicious, malevolent, maleficent, malefic, black-hearted, evil-minded: He was an evil tyrant who killed anyone who opposed him. 2 treacherous, traitorous, perfidious, insidious, unscrupulous, unprincipled, dishonest, dishonourable, crooked, criminal, felonious, knavish, sinister, underhand(ed), dirty, corrupt: He thought up an evil plan for getting rid of his wife. 3 harmful, destructive, hurtful, injurious, mischievous, detrimental, ruinous, deleterious, disastrous, catastrophic, pernicious, noxious, malignant, malign, virulent, toxic, poisonous, deadly, lethal: Evil policies were promulgated against minority groups, and racist attacks abounded. 4 unfortunate, unlucky, ominous, inauspicious, dire, unpropitious, calamitous, infelicitous, woeful: Their business had fallen on evil times. 5 bad, offensive, disgusting, repulsive, awful, nasty, mephitic, noxious, foul, pestilential, putrid, vile; disagreeable, unpleasant: An evil odour permeated the crypt. --n. 6 badness, sin, vice, wickedness, iniquity, turpitude, immorality, profligacy, depravity, degeneracy, corruption, degradation, devilry or deviltry, villainy, nefariousness, viciousness, vileness, heinousness, flagitiousness, baseness, foulness: The evil that men do lives after them, the good is oft interred with their bones. 7 harm, hurt, injury, mischief, damage, ruin, calamity, misfortune, catastrophe, destruction, disaster, cataclysm; ill, misery, suffering, pain, sorrow, woe, agony, anguish: Evil befell the residents of Pompeii.
EXIT|0|n. 1 way out, egress, door, gate; outlet, vent: Everyone left by the emergency exit when the alarm rang. This is the exit for the smoke. 2 departure, leave-taking, withdrawal, leaving, retreat, retirement; flight, exodus, evacuation, escape: Terribly embarrassed, they made their exit. The villain's exit from the stage was marked by catcalls. --v. 3 go (out or away), (take one's) leave, depart, take or make one's departure, retire, (beat a) retreat, bid adieu, withdraw, run, (take a) walk, walk out (on), quit, escape, take to one's heels, show a clean pair of heels, vanish, disappear, Colloq take off, skedaddle, kiss goodbye, US cut out; Slang beat it, US and Canadian take it on the lam, lam (on) out of or from, take a (run-out) powder: He exited from the party as soon as he could.
FACE|0|n. 1 visage, countenance, physiognomy, features, lineaments, Slang mug, mush, kisser, pan, puss, Brit phiz, phizog, dial, clock: I don't like the expression on your face. 2 look, appearance, aspect, expression, mien: He has the face of someone who is very proud of himself. Modern farming has changed the face of the countryside. 3 mask, veneer, faúade, front, camouflage, pretence, disguise, (false) impression, semblance, masquerade: She puts on a bold face, but we know she was deeply hurt by your remarks. 4 dignity, image, self-respect, standing, reputation, repute, name, honour, status: You might lose face if you admit you were wrong. 5 boldness, daring, audacity, effrontery, impudence, impertinence, presumption, brashness, Colloq gall, brass, nerve, cheek, guts, gutsiness, Brit brass neck, Slang US balls: Who would have the face to name such a hotel 'The Palace'? 6 surface, exterior, front, outside, cover, facing, faúade, skin: The building will have a face of white marble. 7 right side, obverse, front; dial: The card landed face up. The face of the clock is enamelled. 8 face to face. confronting, facing, opposite, en face, vis-å-vis, téte-å-téte, å deux, eye to eye, head to head, Colloq eyeball to eyeball: We met face to face for the first time in the courtroom. 9 in the face of. in defiance of, notwithstanding, despite, in spite of, confronting, in opposition to: Some experts attacked the report for flying in the face of received wisdom. 10 make a face. grimace, change one's expression, murgeon: When I said I would be there, she made a face. 11 on the face of it. to all or outward appearances, seemingly, apparently, superficially, evidently: On the face of it, I assumed that he was guilty. 12 show one's face. put in or make an appearance, appear, arrive, be seen, turn up, Colloq show up: I suppose I ought to show my face at the office party. 13 to one's face. directly, brazenly, eye to eye, face to face, candidly, openly, frankly: I told him to his face th...
FACT|0|n. 1 reality, actuality, truth, certainty: The fact of the matter is that she didn't do it. Is there a basis in fact for your allegations? 2 accomplishment, fait accompli; occurrence, event, happening, incident, episode, experience, act, deed: Supersonic travel has been a fact for many years. 3 Often, facts. data, information, particular(s), detail(s), point(s), item(s), factor(s), Colloq low-down, (inside) info, the score, Brit the gen, US and Canadian the poop: If I am going to defend you, I need all the facts of the case. 4 in fact. indeed, to be sure, as a matter of (actual) fact, in truth, truly, truthfully, actually, really, in reality, in point of fact, factually: He didn't come; in fact, he had gone abroad the week before.
FADE|0|v. 1 (grow) dim or pale, grow faint, cloud (over), dull; bleach, whiten, etiolate, wash out, blanch or blench, discolour: The scene faded in the distance. Look how the sun has faded the curtains! 2 droop, wither, decline, die out or away, perish, ebb, flag, wane, wilt, waste away, sag, diminish, dwindle, languish, deteriorate, decay, shrivel, peter out or away: As he aged, his lust for life faded.
FAIL|0|v. 1 not succeed, be unsuccessful, miss, miscarry, misfire, fall short (of), fall flat, fall through, falter, be (found) lacking or wanting, be defective, be deficient, be or prove inadequate, come to grief or naught or nothing, go wrong, abort, meet with disaster, founder, run aground, Colloq flop, fizzle (out), go up in smoke, flunk: Guy Fawkes's plot failed utterly. Gloria failed her history examination. 2 let down, disappoint, forsake, desert, abandon, neglect, ignore, slight: I was really counting on Mary, but she failed me. 3 decline, peter out, dwindle, diminish, wane, deteriorate, weaken, decay, fade or die (out or away), disappear, flag, ebb, sink, languish, give out; gutter, go out: His health is failing. The light failed, leaving us in darkness. 4 go bankrupt, go out of business, go under, go into receivership, become insolvent, close up shop, close up or down, cease operation(s), Brit go to the wall, US file for Chapter Eleven, Colloq fold (up), go bust or broke, US drown in red ink: According to the statistics, hundreds of businesses fail every week.
FAIR|0|adj. 1 impartial, even-handed, disinterested, equitable, just, unprejudiced, unbiased, objective, Colloq square: Judge Leaver is known for his fair decisions. We are counting on your sense of fair play. 2 honest, above-board, honourable, lawful, trustworthy, legitimate, proper, upright, straightforward: He won the trophy in a fair fight. 3 light, blond(e), fair-haired, flaxen-haired, tow-headed, tow-haired; light-complexioned, peaches and cream, rosy; unblemished, clear, spotless, immaculate: She has fair hair and fair skin. 4 satisfactory, adequate, respectable, pretty good, tolerable, passable, all right, average, decent, middling, reasonable, comme ci, comme úa, not bad; mediocre, indifferent, Colloq so so, OK or okay: The performance was fair but not outstanding. 5 favourable, clear, sunny, fine, dry, bright, cloudless, pleasant, halcyon, benign: Fair weather is promised for tomorrow's picnic. 6 unobstructed, open, clear, free: Every spectator has a fair view of the football field. 7 attractive, good-looking, handsome, comely, pretty, beautiful, pulchritudinous, lovely, beauteous: Faint heart never won fair lady. 8 civil, courteous, polite, gracious, agreeable: She was not deceived by his fair words.
FAKE|0|v. 1 falsify, doctor, alter, modify, counterfeit, fabricate, manufacture, forge: He faked the evidence in order to implicate his own sister. 2 pretend, make a pretence of, dissemble, feign, sham, make believe, simulate, affect: She faked a headache to avoid gym classes. --n. 3 hoax, counterfeit, sham, forgery, imitation, Colloq phoney or US also phony: The experts agree that the painting is a fake. 4 faker, impostor, charlatan, fraud, hoaxer, mountebank, cheat, humbug, quack, pretender, Colloq phoney or US also phony: He isn't a doctor - he's a fake! --adj. 5 false, counterfeit, forged, sham, fraudulent, imitation, pinchbeck, bogus, spurious, factitious, Colloq phoney or US also phony: He escaped the country using a fake passport.
FALL|0|v. 1 descend, sink, subside, settle, drop or come (down), plummet, plunge, dive, (take a) nosedive; cascade: The bucket fell to the bottom of the well. A meteorite fell on my house. The water falls 100 metres over the cliff at this point. 2 tumble, trip, stumble, slump, collapse, keel over, topple, crumple: Mother fell in the kitchen and hurt her knee. 3 diminish, (become) lower, sink, decline, fall or drop off, drop, decrease, dwindle, subside, come or go down: The price of oil fell today to a new low. 4 slope, fall away, decline: Beyond the spinney, the meadow falls towards the river. 5 succumb, surrender, yield, give up or in, capitulate, be defeated or conquered, be captured, be taken (captive or prisoner), be overthrown, come or go to ruin, be destroyed, be lost: The castle fell after a year's siege. 6 die, perish, drop dead, be slain or killed: His grandfather fell at the Battle of the Marne. 7 fall apart. disintegrate, crumble, collapse, fall or come or go to pieces, break up, be destroyed; break apart, fragment, shatter: I knew she would fall apart on the witness stand. The gadget fell apart as soon as we used it. 8 fall back. retreat, retire, withdraw, draw back; recede: As the enemy advanced, we fell back. 9 fall back on or upon. have recourse to, rely or depend on or upon, return to, count on or upon, resort to, call on or upon, make use of, use, employ: All the ready ammunition was gone and we had to fall back on our reserves. 10 fall behind. drop back, trail, lag; be in arrears: If you fall behind, I'll wait for you. We fell behind in our mortgage payments. 11 fall down. a collapse, drop: She hit me so hard that I fell down. b fail, be (found) wanting or lacking, be unsuccessful, be or prove inadequate or disappointing: He had to be replaced because he fell down on the job. 12 fall flat. collapse, fail, Colloq flop, US bomb (out), lay an egg, go over like a lead balloon: A hit in London might fall flat in New York. 13 fall for. a fall in love with, be i...
FAME|0|n. renown, repute, reputation, celebrity, illustriousness, superiority, pre-eminence, stardom, prominence, eminence, glory, name, notoriety, acclaim: Randolph's fame has spread far and wide.
FARE|0|n. 1 passenger, traveller: The taxi-driver deposited his fare at the hotel. 2 charge, price, cost: What is the fare from Oxford to London? 3 food, diet, victuals, meals, viands, eatables, provisions: Prison fare consisted of bread and water. --v. 4 do, make one's way, manage, get on or along, make out, survive: The children didn't fare very well on their own.
FARM|0|n. 1 farmstead, farmhouse, grange, homestead, holding; land, farmland, acreage, arable; Brit steading, smallholding, allotment, Scots farm-toun, croft: My grandfather owns a farm in Yorkshire. 2 buy the farm. die, be killed: A MIG caught Johnson and he bought the farm. --v. 3 cultivate, work the land, till the soil: His family has been farming this land for centuries. 4 farm out. contract, subcontract, lease, delegate, let (out): They cut staff and now farm out much of the work.
FAST|0|adj. 1 quick, swift, fleet, speedy, brisk; brief, hurried, hasty, high-speed, accelerated, expeditious, rapid, express: She is very fast on her feet. We need a fast turn-round on this job. 2 loose, profligate, wild, extravagant, dissipated, intemperate, irresponsible, sybaritic, self-indulgent, dissolute, unrestrained, indecorous, rakish, licentious, promiscuous, immoral, wanton, lecherous, lustful: They led quite a fast life till their divorce. 3 firm, fastened, secure(d), fixed, tied, bound, connected, attached: The boat was fast to the pier. 4 firm, fixed, settled, stable, solid, immovable, unshakable or unshakeable, tight: The sword was fast in the stone. 5 firm, stable, steadfast, staunch, unwavering, constant, lasting, close, loyal, devoted, faithful, lasting, permanent: We maintained a fast friendship over the years. --adv. 6 quickly, swiftly, rapidly, speedily, briskly, presto, hastily, hurriedly, with all speed or haste, expeditiously, apace, post-haste, like a flash, in the blink of an eye, in a wink, before you can say 'Jack Robinson', in no time (at all), Colloq like a bat out of hell, like a shot, p.d.q. (='pretty damned quick'), Brit like the clappers (of hell), US and Canadian quick like a bunny or rabbit, lickety-split: Don't talk so fast. He ran out of there very fast. I'll be back very fast. 7 firmly, fixedly, immovably, solidly, unshakeably or unshakably, tightly, securely, soundly: The rope held fast. He is fast asleep. 8 closely, close to, immediately, near, (close) on, right: Fast on the heels of the fugitive came the police. 9 loosely, wildly, recklessly, intemperately, irresponsibly, fecklessly, extravagantly, intemperately, sybaritically, self-indulgently, dissolutely, unrestrainedly, indecorously, rakishly, licentiously, promiscuously, immorally, wantonly, lecherously, lustfully: He's been living fast since inheriting that fortune.
FATE|0|n. 1 fortune, lot, luck, chance, life, destiny, God's will, providence, doom, karma, kismet, toss or throw of the dice, Colloq US and Canadian the breaks, the way the cookie crumbles, the way the ball bounces: Fate has brought us together. Our meeting this way was just fate. 2 doom, destruction, downfall, undoing, ruin, disaster, collapse, death, nemesis, end, finish: The defenders of Masada met their fate bravely. 3 end, outcome, future, destination, disposition: There was no trace of the fate of the explorers. What is to be the fate of this obsolete equipment?
FEAR|0|n. 1 dread, terror, fright, panic, horror, alarm, trepidation, apprehension, fearfulness, apprehensiveness, dismay, consternation, hesitation, qualms, diffidence, timidity, cravenness, cowardice, second thoughts: His fear of going into the jungle alone is understandable. 2 awe, respect, reverence, veneration: That'll put the fear of God into him! 3 horror, spectre, nightmare, bogey or bogy, phobia, bugbear, béte noire, misgiving(s), foreboding(s): When they came to break the news, her worst fears were realized. 4 solicitude, anxiety, angst, foreboding(s), distress, misgiving(s), concern, apprehension, worry, uneasiness, unease: Fear for her safety is shared by all of us. --v. 5 be afraid or scared or fearful or frightened (of), dread, quail or tremble or quake at, shudder at, shrink from, quiver: What man cannot understand he often fears. 6 revere, respect, venerate, be or stand in awe of: If you fear the Lord as I do, you won't take his name in vain. 7 expect, anticipate, imagine, suspect, foresee: I fear we are too late for dinner.
FEAT|0|n. exploit, deed, act, attainment, achievement, accomplishment, tour de force: Persuading your wife to let you go fishing was quite a feat.
FEED|0|v. 1 provision, cater or provide (for), victual, purvey, provender, supply, maintain, nurture, nourish, board, support, sustain, wine and dine: Is there enough to feed everyone? 2 eat, devour, graze, pasture: Cattle feed most of the day. 3 feed on or upon. subsist or survive or depend or thrive on or upon, be nourished or gratified or supported by: Swindlers feed on others' gullibility. --n. 4 fodder, forage, pasturage, silage, food, provender: What kind of feed are you giving the sheep?
FEEL|0|v. 1 touch, see, note, sense, perceive, experience, determine; handle, manipulate, finger: Feel how rough the skin is at this spot. 2 stroke, caress, pet, fondle: I like to feel a bare carpet with my toes. 3 sense, be conscious of, perceive, be aware or sensible of, experience: I could feel the heat of the fire across the room. 4 sense, believe, think, perceive, judge, consider, deem, know, discern, intuit, Colloq get or have the impression, have a hunch, guess, have a (funny) feeling, feel in one's bones: I feel I have outstayed my welcome. 5 undergo, sense, suffer, bear, endure, withstand, stand, abide, brook, tolerate, go through: Let the other team feel the agony of defeat for a change. 6 seem, appear, strike one, give the impression, have a or the feeling: It felt as if a great weight has been lifted from me. It feels like old times. That feels silky. 7 seem to be, be, regard or characterize oneself as, take oneself to be: I feel certain that we've met before. I felt a perfect fool. 8 feel for. sympathize or empathize with, commiserate with, bleed for, be sorry for, pity, have compassion for: She feels for all mothers whose sons have died. 9 feel like. incline or lean to or towards, prefer, fancy, want, desire, crave: I feel like a cup of hot tea. --n. 10 texture, surface, sensation, touch, finish: This wood has the feel of satin. 11 feeling, air, atmosphere, climate, ambience, sense, note, tone, quality: It's so cosy here - it has the feel of home.
FELL|0|v. cut or knock or strike down, floor, prostrate, level, hew (down), flatten, demolish, mow (down); kill: He felled his opponent with one blow. All the trees in this area must be felled.
FEND|0|v. 1 fend for oneself. get or scrape along (on one's own), make out, get by, make do, shift for oneself, take care of or provide for or support oneself: Mother didn't believe I could fend for myself. 2 fend off. discourage, parry, keep or hold at bay, resist, repel, stave or ward or fight off, deflect, turn aside, avert, divert: We fended off our attackers for three days.
FEUD|0|n. 1 dispute, conflict, vendetta, hostility, strife, enmity, animosity, hatred, antagonism, rivalry, ill will, bad blood, hard feelings, contention, discord, grudge, dissension, disagreement, argument, quarrel, bickering, squabble, falling out, estrangement: A silly feud broke out over whose turn it was to bring the Christmas goose. --v. 2 dispute, quarrel, bicker, disagree, conflict, row, fight, fall out, clash, be at odds, be at daggers drawn: The Hatfields and McCoys feuded for decades.
FILE|0|n. 1 document, documentation, dossier, case, data, folder, portfolio, information: Interpol has files on Cowdery's activities going back ten years. 2 line, queue, column, row, rank: The file of armoured vehicles stretched for miles. --v. 3 classify, organize, systematize, categorize, alphabetize, chronologize, order, arrange, pigeon-hole, interfile, put or place in order, register, record, enter: Must all this correspondence be filed today? 4 submit, send in, complete, fill in or US and Canadian also fill out, enter: I have already filed my application for a transfer. 5 walk, march, troop, parade: Please file into the classroom and take your seats.
FILL|0|v. 1 crowd, stuff, cram, jam, load, burden, pack, squeeze: A huge number of people filled the stadium. 2 top (off), top up, fill up, make full; inflate, swell, stretch, blow up, distend, expand: Pour in just enough to fill the bottle. See if you can fill the balloon. Wind filled the sails. 3 Sometimes, fill up. supply, provide, furnish: Irena has filled her house with paintings. 4 meet, satisfy, fulfil, answer: Will a dozen fill your needs for a while? 5 satisfy, satiate, bloat, sate, gorge, stuff; stock: The guests filled themselves with choice foods at the reception. 6 abound in, overflow, be abundant or plentiful in: Trout filled the lake. 7 close, stop (up), block, stuff, plug, caulk, seal: The dentist had to fill two cavities. 8 occupy, take over, discharge, carry out, do, execute: Can you fill her job while she's away? 9 fill in or US and Canadian also out. a make out, complete, answer: Please fill in this application. b take the place, stand in, substitute: Could you fill in during my secretary's absence? c inform, tell, advise, let in on, notify, bring up to date, share, let in on: Don will fill you in on the details later. 10 fill out. a swell, expand, grow, distend, stretch; fatten, increase: The sails filled out in the freshening breeze. b US fill in. See 9(a). --n. 11 one's fill. plenty, enough; surfeit, sufficiency: We ate our fill and left.
FILM|0|n. 1 coating, skin, coat, membrane, peel, integument, layer, overlay, covering, cover, sheet, dusting, veil, Technical pellicle: There is a film of grease over everything. 2 motion picture, movie, picture; videotape; Colloq flick, pic; video: Why do they show the same films every Christmas? 3 veil, screen, murkiness, blur, smokescreen, haze, mist, haziness, mistiness, cloud, vapour, fog, steam: I could barely make out the road through the film on the windscreen. --v. 4 film over, coat, cover, dim, obscure, fade (away), veil, screen, blur, blear, mist, cloud, glaze,: The pond filmed over with bacteria. Her eyes filmed with tears. 5 photograph, shoot, take, (video)tape: If the director insists, then the scene must be filmed again.
FIND|0|v. 1 discover, come across, happen or come on or upon, hit upon or on, chance or stumble on or upon; encounter, bump into: We've found a tiny bistro on the Left Bank where we like to go. 2 Often, find out. uncover, discover, unearth, lay one's hand(s) on, turn up, come up with, reveal, bring to light, light upon or on, catch sight of, see, espy, descry, detect, learn, spot, locate, track down; find out, identify, become aware of, determine, ascertain, put one's finger on, point to, Colloq tumble to, Brit twig; Slang finger, rumble, Brit suss out: The police are trying to find the murderer. Can you find who did it? 3 discover, perceive, see, understand, notice, mark, remark, note, distinguish, discern; realize: I find nothing odd about her attire. 4 consider, think, regard, view, feel or discover to be: I have always found Lady Sharpless exceedingly dull. He finds it impossible to refuse her demands. 5 get, obtain, procure, secure, acquire, win, gain; experience: We despair of finding customers for our services in these hard times. He found relief only in painkillers. 6 recover, locate, get back; repossess, recoup: I hope you find the earring you lost. 7 summon (up), call up, command, gather (up), muster (up), rouse, arouse, awaken: I tried to find the courage to ask her to marry me. 8 set aside, allot, assign, manage, get: Have you found the time to read Connie's new book? 9 judge, decide or determine to be, pronounce, declare: A jury found her guilty. The judge found in favour of the plaintiff. --n. 10 discovery, catch, bargain, deal; boon, windfall: The gold doubloon was the find of a lifetime.
FINE|0|adj. 1 superior, excellent, superb, magnificent, supreme, marvellous, exceptional, splendid, exquisite, elegant, first-class, first-rate, prime, choice, select, top-grade, high-grade, top-drawer, quality, admirable, great, good, satisfactory, Colloq out of this world, great, OK or okay, peachy, neat, keen, Brit tickety-boo, US neat, Australian bonzer, Slang swell, cool, Brit old-fashioned ripping, Dialectal champion: He is a connoisseur of fine paintings. She turned in a fine performance. 2 sunny, fair, bright, clear, cloudless, balmy, pleasant, dry, nice: It was a fine day for a picnic. 3 enjoyable, satisfying, entertaining, amusing, good, interesting, pleasant, nice: Thank you for inviting us to such a fine party. 4 accomplished, skilful, consummate, outstanding, masterly, brilliant, virtuoso: Ann-Sofie is a fine pianist. 5 delicate, subtle, exquisite, well-made, dainty, elegant; superior, excellent, outstanding: What a fine example of miniature-painting! 6 delicate, dainty, thin, gossamer, diaphanous, gauzy, sheer, slender, frail, flimsy, filamentous, threadlike: The sword hung over Damocles' head by a fine thread. 7 powdered, powdery, pulverized, comminuted, crushed, fine-grained: As soon as they touched the papyrus, it disintegrated into a fine powder. 8 sharp, keen, keen-edged, razor-sharp, pointed, acute: The points of the sea urchin's spines are so fine you don't feel them enter. 9 subtle, delicate, refined, acute, keen, discriminating, critical, precise, nice, hair-splitting: There is sometimes a fine distinction between pleasure and pain. 10 good-looking, handsome, attractive, striking, beautiful, pretty, lovely, seemly, fair, comely, Colloq US cute, Scots bonny: Jeanette married a fine young man. 11 meritorious, worthy, commendable, admirable, excellent, superb, splendid, good, Colloq great: She has displayed fine courage in the face of terrible family problems. 12 healthy, well, healthful, robust, all right, Colloq OK or okay: I told the doctor that I wa...
FIRE|0|n. 1 flame(s), blaze; conflagration, holocaust, inferno: We gathered round the roaring fire. 2 feeling, passion, ardour, ardency, fervour, fervency, intensity, vigour, spirit, energy, vim, vivacity, sparkle, animation, liveliness, verve, pep, ÷lan, ÷clat, dash, vitality, eagerness, enthusiasm, fever, feverishness: I have never seen the role of Carmen performed with such fire. 3 firing, fusillade, volley, barrage, bombardment, salvo, cannonade, shelling, broadside, flak: The fire from the guns shook the house. 4 hang fire. delay, be delayed, be in abeyance, be suspended, be shelved, be put off, be postponed, be up in the air, Colloq be put on hold, be (put) on the back burner: The decision is hanging fire till tomorrow. 5 on fire. afire, burning, blazing, alight, aflame, flaming; ardent, passionate, fervent, fervid, hot-blooded, intense, aroused, stirred, stimulated, enthusiastic, fired up, eager, inspired, excited: The building is on fire: you must leave at once. My very soul is on fire when I think of you. 6 play with fire. undertake a risk or hazard or peril, run a risk, risk (something or everything), imperil or endanger (something), tempt fate, live dangerously: He warned people not to play with fire by stirring up racial hatred. 7 set fire to. See 8, below. --v. 8 a set fire to, set afire, set on fire, ignite, set alight, kindle, spark (off), put to the torch, burn, Slang US torch: Arsonists fired our headquarters last night. b Sometimes, fire up. inflame, impassion, incite, excite, provoke, foment, whip up, arouse, rouse, work up, fire up, enkindle, light a fire under, stimulate, inspirit, motivate, move, stir, animate, inspire, awaken, energize, vitalize, vivify: She fired the crowd's emotions with her impassioned speech. 9 discharge, shoot, let go (with), launch, propel, throw, catapult, hurl: He fired the missile towards the enemy. 10 detonate, set off, ignite, set fire to, light, let off: It is against the law to fire any explosives in this area. 11 disc...
FIRM|0|adj. 1 compact, solid, dense, compressed, condensed, concentrated, rigid, stiff, hard, unyielding, inflexible, inelastic: I prefer a firm mattress. 2 stable, fixed, fast, secure, steady, solid, stationary, anchored, moored, unmovable, immovable: This pole is firmer than that one. 3 steady, strong, sturdy, tight, unwavering, unshakable or unshakeable, unswerving: What we need is a firm hand at the controls. 4 resolute, determined, dogged, definite, resolved, positive, decisive, decided, set on or upon, steadfast, constant, unflinching, staunch, unshaken, unshakeable or unshakable, immovable, inflexible, rigid, unwavering, undeviating, unchanging, unchangeable, obstinate, obdurate, stubborn, strict, unyielding, unbending, unalterable: Father was firm about my not staying out past midnight. --v. 5 Often firm up. consolidate, establish, settle (down), solidify, resolve, determine, set up: We firmed up the terms of the contract. Sugar prices firmed today. --n. 6 company, organization, corporation, limited company, public limited company, plc, partnership, proprietorship, business, enterprise, concern, house, conglomerate, multinational (company), cartel, Colloq outfit; US jargon CIA, Central Intelligence Agency: He works for a firm in the City.
FIZZ|0|v. 1 bubble, effervesce, sparkle, froth, fizzle; hiss, sputter, sizzle: The champagne fizzed in my glass. --n. 2 effervescence, sparkle, carbonation, bubbling, froth, fizzle, fizziness: All the fizz is gone from my drink! 3 hiss, hissing, sibilance: The steam escaped with a loud fizz. 4 US soda, soda water, club soda, seltzer, Dialect plain; soft drink, tonic: May I have a little fizz with my scotch? 5 champagne, Colloq Brit champers: We celebrated with oysters and a bottle of fizz.
FLAG|0|n. 1 banner, ensign, standard, pennant, banneret, pennon, streamer, bunting, jack, gonfalon, vexillum: Our flag was raised over the fort. --v. 2 Often flag down. warn, signal, hail, inform, stop: A workman flagged us down because the bridge was out. 3 mark, tag, label, tab, identify, Brit tick (off), US and Canadian check (off): Flag the supplies you need that are listed here.
FLAK|0|n. flack, criticism, disapproval, censure, abuse, blame, aspersion, complaint(s), disapprobation, condemnation, Colloq brickbats: He took a lot of flak from the press for his comments.
FLAP|0|v. 1 slap, slat, beat, flail, wave, wag, waggle, flutter, thresh, thrash, oscillate, vibrate: An ornithopter is an aeroplane that flaps its wings like a bird. The Union Jack was flapping in the breeze. --n. 2 flapping, beat, wave, wag, waggle, flutter, oscillation: With a flap of its wings, the bird flew away. 3 fold, fly, lappet, lap, tail, tab: Leave a flap of cloth to cover the pocket. 4 upset, agitation, to-do, ado, commotion, panic, flurry, fuss, distress, Colloq state, tizzy, sweat, Brit kerfuffle: She's in a flap about what to wear to the dance. 5 quarrel, argument, dispute: There was a big flap over which car model to buy.
FLAT|0|adj. 1 level, horizontal, even, smooth, plane, unbroken, uninterrupted: I looked out over the flat surface of the frozen bay. 2 prostrate, prone, supine, lying (down), stretched out, recumbent, outstretched, reclining, spread-eagle(d), spread out, outspread: I lay flat on my back staring up at the sky. 3 collapsed, levelled, overthrown, laid low: The air raid had left all the buildings completely flat. 4 downright, outright, unqualified, unreserved, unconditional, absolute, categorical, explicit, unconditional, definite, firm, positive, out-and-out, unequivocal, peremptory, unambiguous, unmistakable, direct, complete, total: The request for clemency was met with the judge's flat refusal. 5 featureless, monotonous, dull, dead, uninteresting, unexciting, vapid, bland, empty, two-dimensional, insipid, boring, tiresome, lifeless, spiritless, lacklustre, prosaic, stale, tired, dry, jejune: The critics wrote that she turned in a very flat performance. 6 deflated, collapsed, punctured, ruptured, blown out: We had a flat tyre on the way. 7 unchangeable, unchanging, invariable, unvaried, unvarying, standard, fixed, unmodified, unmodifiable, Colloq US cookie-cutter: They charge the same flat rate for children, the elderly, and all between. 8 dead, insipid, stale, tasteless, flavourless, unpalatable; decarbonated, non-effervescent: My beer has gone flat. 9 exact, precise: It's a flat ten minutes from here to the railway station. 10 definite, certain, sure, irrevocable: I said I'm not going, and that's flat. 11 dull, slow, sluggish, inactive, depressed: Business has been a bit flat since Christmas. 12 dull, mat or matt or matte, unshiny, non-gloss(y), non-reflective, non-glare, unpolished: The table looks better with a flat finish. 13 lacking perspective, two-dimensional, lifeless, unrealistic: Some of his paintings seem pretty flat to me. --n. 14 Often, flats. a US low shoes, loafers, sandals, Colloq flatties: Cynthia said that wearing flats makes her feet hurt. b lowland(s), ...
FLAW|0|n. 1 fault, defect, imperfection, error, mistake, blemish, blot, stain, taint, (black) mark, damage, disfigurement, failing, weakness, weak spot; loophole: Flaws in the casting give this bell a dull sound. I can see flaws in your argument. 2 crack, break, breach, chink, chip, fracture, rupture, fissure, cleft, split, slit, cut, gash, rent, rift, tear, rip, puncture, hole, perforation: The tiniest flaw may reduce the value of a pot to a collector. --v. 3 damage, harm, spoil, ruin, mark, weaken, disfigure: Careless workmanship has flawed many of the objects they produced. 4 discredit, stigmatize, damage, hurt, harm; taint, mar, stain, blot: Her reputation has already been flawed.
FLEE|0|v. 1 quit, run away or off, escape, get away, fly, take flight, bolt, go (away), decamp, abscond, seek safety, avoid, make off, make an exit, make (good) one's escape, make a (clean) getaway, beat a (hasty) retreat, take to one's heels, show a clean pair of heels, turn tail, make tracks, make a run for it, cut and run, vanish, disappear, Brit levant, Colloq take off, scoot, make oneself scarce, beat it, clear out, fly the coop, skedaddle, scram, Brit scarper, Australian and New Zealand shoot through, US and Canadian take a (run-out) powder, skip (town), cut out, hightail it, Old-fashioned skiddoo; Slang split, Brit bugger off, do a moonlight flit, do a bunk, US and Canadian vamoose, lam out, take it on the lam, blow, bail out: He fled the town and was never seen again. When they saw what they had done, they fled. She fled to Brazil to avoid the tax authorities. 2 avoid, evade, shun, escape from, eschew: She fled the responsibilities of caring for her children.
FLEX|0|n. 1 wire, lead, cord, cable, extension: Replace this flex before you have a short circuit. --v. 2 bend, give, stretch, curve: The plastic tube can be flexed many times without breaking. 3 exercise, tense, tighten, contract: He flexed his muscles before lifting the weight.
FLIP|0|v. 1 toss, flick, snap, flop, turn, twist, spin: Flip a coin to see who goes first. 2 anger, become angry or furious, go mad, go crazy, go berserk, US also flip out, Colloq go off the deep end, lose one's cool, Slang flip one's lid or Brit top, Brit freak, US freak out, lose it: Father flipped when I said I was quitting college.
FLIT|0|v. move, go, fly, flee, dart, skip, skim, flick, hop, whisk, flutter, flash: As a bee flits from flower to flower, she flits from man to man.
FLOG|0|v. 1 whip, lash, horsewhip, strap, flagellate, flay, scourge, thrash, thresh, beat; chastise, castigate, punish: He will be flogged, then drawn and quartered. He was flogged for stealing a loaf of bread. 2 sell; promote, publicize: Her latest job is flogging encyclopedias door-to-door.
FLOP|0|v. 1 collapse, drop (down), fall (down), tumble, topple, plump down, plop down, flounce down: I was so exhausted that I flopped into bed at once. 2 flap, wave, swing: The door, unfastened, flopped back and forth in the wind. 3 fail, fall flat, come to naught or nothing, founder, Colloq fold, US bomb: The musical flopped on the first night. --n. 4 failure, fiasco, disaster, non-starter, d÷bçcle, US fizzle, Colloq dud, washout, clanger, US lead balloon, bomb; Slang lemon, Brit cock-up, damp squib: His idea for a new corkscrew was a complete flop.
FLOW|0|v. 1 stream, pour, run, rush, course, surge, move, go, proceed, progress, drift; gush, glide, purl, roll, ripple, trickle, gurgle, bubble; swirl, whirl, circulate: People continue to flow past the window. The Thames flows silently to the sea. 2 rush, gush, surge, well (forth), stream, spring, issue, spout, spurt, squirt, spew, flood, cascade, fall, rain; brim, overflow, spill, teem: Open the gates to allow water to flow into the lock. A stream of insults flowed from his lips. Her tears flowed like wine. 3 issue, originate, come, emanate, rise, begin: With the dam repaired, water will once again flow from the reservoir. The authority of the state constitutions does not flow from Congress. 4 spread, overspread, cover: The paint flowed effortlessly onto the canvas. --n. 5 rush, gush, surge; current, course, stream, run, movement, drift: A dam blocks the flow of water here. The sound of a shot interrupted the flow of conversation. 6 abundance, superabundance, flood, plethora, excess, overflow(ing), deluge, tide, supply; plenty: London experiences an unending flow of tourists.
FLUX|0|n. instability, change, mutation, modification, fluctuation, unrest, swing, swinging, wavering, movement, motion, oscillation, indecision, indecisiveness: The economic indicators are in a constant state of flux.
FOAM|0|n. 1 bubbles, froth, spume, lather, suds; effervescence, sparkle, carbonation, fizz: The foam leaves spots when it dries. --v. 2 bubble, froth, spume, lather, suds, soap up: Watch the solution foam when I drop this tablet into it.
FOGY|0|n. Also, fogey. Usually, old fogy or fogey. conservative, relic, Colloq fuddy-duddy, fossil, antique, stick-in-the-mud, back number, square: That old fogy still dances the foxtrot.
FOIL|0|v. thwart, offset, defeat, baffle, balk, parry, frustrate, counter, check, impede, hamper, outwit, circumvent, checkmate, daunt, disconcert, discomfit, disappoint, pull the rug out from under (someone), cut the ground from under someone's feet, nullify, nip in the bud, countervail (against), Brit put a spoke in (someone's) wheel, Colloq clip (someone's) wings, cut (someone) down to size, spoil (someone's) game, Chiefly US and Canadian faze: The villain and his evil plan were again foiled by the arrival of the sheriff.
FOLD|0|v. 1 bend, ply, double (over or up), overlap, crease, pleat, gather, crimp: Fold the letter before putting it into the envelope. 2 enclose, envelop, enfold, wrap, enwrap, clasp, clip, embrace, hug, gather: He folded her in his arms. 3 give way, collapse, fail, close (up or down), shut down, go out of business, go bankrupt, Colloq go under, go broke, go bust, Brit go to the wall: The company folded and ten employees were made redundant. --n. 4 crease, wrinkle, crinkle, pucker, pleat, gather, crimp, overlap, lap: The folds will remain crisp if you use starch when ironing.
FOND|0|adj. 1 tender, loving, affectionate, warm, adoring, caring: She clasped him in a fond embrace. 2 foolish, bootless, empty, vain, naìve: She had fond hopes of his being elected. 3 fond of. partial to, (having a) liking (for), soft on or about, affectionate towards, attached to, having a fancy or taste for, fancying, predisposed or inclined to or towards; addicted to, Colloq hooked on: She is inordinately fond of chocolate.
FOOD|0|n. nourishment, nutriment, aliment, sustenance, subsistence; foodstuffs, edibles, eatables, viands, bread, victuals, rations, provisions, comestibles, Brit commons, Colloq grub, eats, chow, Brit scoff, prog: Without any food for days, the survivors were near starvation.
FOOL|0|n. 1 simpleton, ninny, ninny-hammer, nincompoop, ass, jackass, dunce, dolt, halfwit, numskull or numbskull, blockhead, bonehead, pinhead, silly, feather-brain, loon, goose, booby, jay, goon, mooncalf, idiot, ignoramus, dim-wit, nitwit, halfwit, imbecile, moron, clod, clodpole, clodpoll, clodpate, oaf, Psychology retardate, Scots gomerel, Colloq birdbrain, dumb-bell, fat-head, chump, twit, knuckle-head, chucklehead, nit, twerp or twirp, Brit pillock, US and Canadian jerk, retard; Slang sap, dope, Brit git, Australian boofhead: He's such a fool he'll believe anything. 2 (court) jester, clown, comic, comedian or comedienne, entertainer, zany, buffoon, merry andrew, farceur, joker, jokester, droll, Punch, Punchinello, pierrot, harlequin: In Shakespeare's plays, the fool is often the wisest character. 3 butt, dupe, gull, victim, cat's-paw, Colloq chump, greenhorn, (easy) mark, US fall guy; Slang pigeon, sucker, stooge, Brit mug: His co-workers liked to make a fool out of him. --v. 4 trick, deceive, take in, swindle, defraud, hoax, cheat, fleece, cozen, hoodwink, bluff, dupe, gull, humbug, delude, mislead, make a fool of; pull the wool over (someone's) eyes, have (someone) on, pull (someone's) leg, tease, twit, Archaic chouse; Colloq kid, con, snow, do a snow job on, bamboozle, put one or something over on, pull something or a fast one on, Brit twist, Chiefly US and Canadian josh; Slang pluck, Brit nobble: When he said the diamond was fake, he certainly fooled me. I think she was fooling when she said she'd inherited millions. 5 joke, jest, banter, tease, twit, feign, fake, pretend, make believe, Colloq kid: She insists that she is not fooling but dead serious. 6 fool with or around or about (with). play (around or about) (with), toy or trifle (with), mess or fiddle (around or about) (with), monkey (around or about) with, meddle (with), tamper with, fribble (with): Please stop fooling with the dials on the radio. 7 fool around or about. a play or mess around or about, gam...
FORM|0|n. 1 shape, configuration, conformation, order, organization, arrangement, formation, construction, structure, construct, frame, cut, cast, mould, pattern, appearance; manifestation: The equipment in the playground was in a variety of geometric forms. In what form will the jinnee appear next? 2 figure, body, build, shape, physique, anatomy; silhouette, aspect, look, appearance, profile, contour; carriage, bearing, attitude, pose, Slang US bod, built: She has the form of a wrestler. 3 type, kind, variety, sort, breed, species, genus, genre, character, make, brand, colour, tone, tint, texture, fabric, material, feather, description, manner, way, nature, style, stamp, manifestation: What forms of life are not of divine origin? He revelled in music in all its forms. 4 blank; model, format, frame, framework, course, procedure, order, regimen, method, system, ritual, formula, rule(s), practice, technique, way, means, approach, mode, fashion, manner, style: Fill in the application form in ink. Please follow the proper form when submitting articles. 5 condition, state, shape, trim, fettle: He seems in unusually good form tonight. 6 decorum, behaviour, deportment, formality, ceremony, convention, etiquette, manners, conduct, custom, protocol, propriety, ritual: Follow correct form when writing to the king. Spitting is considered bad form. --v. 7 make, fabricate, forge, shape, mould, fashion, produce, turn out, manufacture, construct, assemble, put together, set up, put up, build, erect, elevate, raise, put up; organize, codify; develop: The architect takes the many elements and forms them into a coherent whole. Have you formed an opinion of the book? 8 create, originate, devise, invent, compose, formulate, give form or shape, coin, concoct, conceive, contrive, dream up, imagine, visualize, envisage, US envision: His ideas of religion were formed when he was very young. A picture of the battle was formed in my mind. 9 make up, constitute, be made up of, comprise, be composed ...
FOUL|0|adj. 1 offensive, loathsome, disgusting, obnoxious, revolting, repulsive, repellent, repugnant, sickening, nauseous, nauseating, nasty, beastly, Archaic fulsome: The bartender makes a foul concoction he swears will cure a hangover. 2 filthy, unclean, nasty, polluted, putrid, putrescent, putrefactive or putrefacient, defiled, soiled, spoiled, rotten, decayed, decomposed, rancid, soured, turned, tainted, mouldy, impure, adulterated, contaminated, stale, bad, Brit off: The hamburger place was closed when public health inspectors found foul food in the freezer. 3 smelly, stinking, noisome, fetid or foetid, rank, evil-smelling, foul-smelling, malodorous, musty, mephitic, graveolent: A foul odour emanated from the cabinet. 4 wicked, vile, bad, base, abominable, low, sordid, iniquitous, evil, flagitious, atrocious, monstrous, nefarious, sinful, immoral, amoral, vicious, villainous, scandalous, infamous, dishonourable, shameful, disgraceful, ignominious; detestable: They were finally brought to justice for their foul deeds. 5 dirty, obscene, filthy, profane, scatological, gross, smutty, foul-mouthed, blue, licentious, salacious, lewd, indecent, improper, coarse, uncouth, vulgar, rude, scurrilous, rough, indelicate, immodest, risqu÷, off colour, suggestive, bawdy, ribald, Rabelaisian, Fescennine, US raw, Slang raunchy: My mother forbids my reading books containing foul language. 6 abusive, offensive, affronting, insulting, disparaging, maligning, thersitical, calumnious or calumniatory, aspersive, slanderous, defamatory, libellous, denigrating, derogatory, deprecatory or deprecative, depreciatory or depreciative, denunciatory or denunciative, derisory, derisive, scornful, belittling, fulminous, objurgatory or objurgative, vituperative, invective: Keep your foul tongue to yourself. 7 dishonest, unfair, unjust, unsportsmanlike, dishonourable, fraudulent, underhand(ed), double-dealing, two-faced, corrupt, venal, dirty, treacherous, perfidious, traitorous, unscrupulous, Colloq ...
FRAY|0|n. disturbance, skirmish, fight, battle, brawl, tussle, scuffle, fracas, mél÷e or melee, Donnybrook, wrangle, rumpus, row, quarrel, dispute, altercation, Law affray, Colloq ruckus, punch-up: He leapt into the fray and fought like a tiger.
FREE|0|adj. 1 at liberty, unfettered, unchained, unshackled, unconfined, untrammelled, unencumbered, unrestrained, unrestricted, unconstrained, uncontrolled, free-born, independent, self-governing, self-governed, self-ruling, autonomous, democratic, sovereign: These people want to be free. It's a free country. 2 liberated, at large, let go, let off, emancipated, delivered, manumitted, set free, unshackled, unfettered, released, freed, loose, out, Colloq sprung, on the loose: After ten years he was free at last. 3 unoccupied, unengaged, at liberty, not busy, available, accessible; unused, vacant, empty, spare, extra, uninhabited, untenanted: Are you free for dinner tonight? Here is a free room we can use for the meeting. 4 cost-free, free of charge, complimentary, gratis, for nothing, without cost (or obligation), unencumbered, Colloq for free, on the house: The food was free but we paid for our drinks. 5 unattached, unfastened, untied, loose: Tie the free end of the rope round your waist. 6 unasked for, unsolicited, gratuitous, unbidden, voluntary, spontaneous, unconditioned, unconditional: Let me give you some free advice. 7 generous, lavish, open, liberal, munificent, unstinting, bountiful, open-handed, unsparing; charitable: Fred is quite free with his donations to good causes. 8 relaxed, casual, informal, free and easy, easy, natural, unceremonious, Colloq laid-back: He is quite free about letting me use his car. 9 open, above-board, honest, direct, outspoken, uninhibited, unconstrained, unrestrained, relaxed: You can be free in your criticism. 10 unhindered, unimpeded, unencumbered, unhampered, unobstructed, allowed, permitted, able, clear, unrestricted, unregulated: She's free to do as she pleases. The two countries have signed a free-trade agreement. 11 free of. rid of, exempt(ed) from, relieved of, safe from, not liable or subject to, immune from, unaffected by, above, without, untouched by: He thinks he is free of her influence. --adv. 12 freely, openly, at will, ...
FRET|0|v. 1 worry, be concerned, agonize, lose sleep, be upset or distressed or anxious or disturbed, grieve, brood, whine, fuss, complain, Colloq stew, tear one's hair: Your kitten is safe now, so stop fretting. 2 worry, concern, distress, vex, annoy, irritate, torment, provoke, US rankle: She fretted herself about Henry's health.
FUEL|0|n. 1 tinder, combustible, kindling; fossil or nuclear fuel: You must pay a lot for fuel to heat that big house. 2 ammunition, encouragement, stimulus, incitement, provocation: Her teasing him only provided more fuel for his passion. 3 nourishment, nutriment, sustenance, food, nutrition: The body needs more fuel on a cold day. --v. 4 nourish, feed, sustain; stimulate, encourage, incite, provoke, inflame, exacerbate, excite: U-235 is used to fuel the reactor. Frustration fuels the flame of desire.
FULL|0|adj. 1 filled, replete, brimming, brim-full, packed, jam-packed, congested, loaded, bursting, chock-a-block, chock-full or choke-full or chuck-full, jammed, crammed, solid, well supplied, crowded, stuffed; gorged, saturated, sated, satiated: The tank is full of petrol. Her Christmas stocking was full of toys. I'm full; I couldn't manage another bite. 2 complete, thorough, detailed, comprehensive, total, all-inclusive, broad, extensive, all-encompassing, exhaustive, plenary: The police are demanding a full investigation. 3 complete, entire, whole: The recipe calls for a full dozen egg yolks. 4 utmost, greatest, maximum, highest, top; extreme: Full speed ahead. 5 wide, ample, generous, broad, copious, loose(-fitting): The tight bolero jacket is offset by a full skirt. 6 occupied, engrossed, absorbed, immersed, preoccupied, obsessed, consumed, engaged, concerned: She's entirely too full of herself to pay any attention to us. 7 filled or rounded out, round(ish), well-rounded, plump; robust, shapely, well-shaped, curvaceous, buxom, busty, voluptuous, full-bodied, well-proportioned, well-built , Slang stacked, Brit well-stacked, US zaftig, built: His face is rather full, so wrinkles don't show. Her figure is what I'd call full. 8 unrestricted, non-restricted, unconditional, unqualified: Payment of dues entitles you to full membership privileges. 9 sentimental, emotional, overflowing: His heart was so full he could say no more. 10 unobscured, unshaded, undimmed, open, broad, bright, shining, brilliant, dazzling, glaring, intense, blazing, blinding; harsh, vivid, revealing: We emerged into full daylight. In the full light of day, the plan seems unworkable. 11 powerful, resonant, rich, deep, loud: His full bass voice was unmistakable. 12 complete, whole, entire; comprehensive, uncut, unabridged, intact, unshortened, unbowdlerized, uncensored: We were to receive full pay for a half day's work. Is this a full deck of cards? I have a full set of the original engravings. --adv. ...
FUME|0|v. 1 seethe, smoulder, chafe, boil, rage, storm, rant, flare up, bluster, lose one's temper, explode, Colloq get steamed (up) (over or about), lose one's cool, flip one's lid, flip (out), fly off the handle, hit the roof, raise the roof, blow one's top or stack, get hot under the collar, blow a gasket, go off the deep end: She was fuming because I was five minutes late. 2 smoke: The mixture fumes if you add these ingredients. --n. 3 Usually, fumes. smoke, vapour, effluvium, gas, exhalation, exhaust; smell, odour, aroma, fragrance, stench, stink, miasma; pollution, smog: The fumes from O. C. Cabot's cigar spread through the building.
FUND|0|n. 1 supply, stock, reserve, store, pool, cache, reservoir, repository, mine: Alison is a veritable fund of information about art. 2 Often, funds. money, (hard) cash, ready money, assets, means, wealth, resources, wherewithal, savings, capital, nest egg, endowment, Colloq loot, lucre, pelf, green, bread, dough, Brit ready, readies, lolly, US bucks, scratch: He has the funds to buy out his partners. Have you contributed to the fund for indigent lexicographers? --v. 3 finance, back, capitalize, stake, support, pay for, endow, grant, subsidize: The company has funded a number of new businesses.
FURY|0|n. 1 anger, rage, wrath, indignation, ire, choler, rancour: Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned. 2 impetuosity, ferocity, savagery, vehemence, fierceness, tempestuousness, turbulence, violence: How can we stem the fury of his attack? 3 virago, shrew, spitfire, hell-cat, termagant, vixen,she-devil, hag, witch, bitch, Archaic beldam: Some of the furies from the women's liberation movement descended on him.
FUSE|0|v. blend, merge, unite, combine, compound, mix, commingle, coalesce, flow or come together, consolidate, amalgamate; melt: The metals fuse at a relatively low temperature.
FUSS|0|n. 1 bother, pother, dither, fluster, flurry, fret, commotion, ado, bustle, to-do, excitement, furore or US furor, unrest, (deal of) trouble, disquiet, upset, stir, uproar, disturbance, stir, hubbub, agitation, brouhaha, Colloq hoo-ha, flap, stink, Brit kerfuffle, Slang US hoop-la: Stop making such a big fuss over nothing. --v. 2 make a fuss, rush about or around, flutter, Colloq kick up a fuss: I do wish she'd stop fussing - the party is going very well.
GAIN|0|v. 1 get, obtain, acquire, procure, attain, achieve, secure, earn, win, capture, bag, net, harvest, reap, garner, glean, collect, gather, come by, pick up: Any advantage we gain today may be lost tomorrow. 2 make, get, profit, gain ground, earn, benefit, realize, clear, bring in, produce, yield: Have you gained from the transaction? 3 improve, recuperate, progress, rally, get better, advance, gain ground: Her health has gained steadily since the cyst was removed. 4 catch up (to or on or with), approach, get nearer (to), overtake, close with, close in (on), narrow the gap, gain ground: As we came to the finish line, Tom was gaining on me. Though he kept gaining, I won. 5 leave behind, outdistance, draw or pull away (from), widen the gap, get or go or move further or farther ahead, get further or farther away (from), increase the lead: I kept gaining on him till I was a mile ahead. 6 reach, arrive at, get to, come to: After paddling for hours, we finally gained the shore. 7 increase, move ahead, improve, advance, progress, gain ground: Shares gained again on the exchange. --n. 8 profit, advantage, margin, yield, return, revenue, income, dividend, benefit, emolument, payment, pay, money; proceeds, earnings, winnings; Colloq chiefly US take, payout, pay-off: What was your gain on the sale of the house? He has seen gains of 20 per cent on his investment. 9 increase, increment, improvement, rise, addition, enhancement, elevation, augmentation, upward or forward movement, advance, progress: Each month has seen a gain in share prices. 10 acquisition, achievement, attainment: My gain was at the expense of their sacrifice.
GALA|0|n. 1 féte or fete, festival, festivity, feast, celebration, event, red-letter day, holiday, holy day, carnival, occasion, happening, event, pageant, party, ball; field-day: The annual gala is planned for Midsummer's Eve. --adj. 2 merry, festive, joyful, joyous, gleeful, jovial, gay, celebratory, jolly, convivial, happy, cheerful, cheery: Her home-coming was a gala occasion.
GALE|0|n. 1 wind-storm, strong wind, (big or hard) blow, blast, turbulence, storm, tempest: I refuse to take the boat out in that gale. 2 outburst, burst, explosion, eruption; peal, roar, scream, shout, howl, shriek: Bea Lillie needed merely to raise an eyebrow to send her audience into gales of laughter.
GALL|0|n. 1 bitterness, acerbity, acrimony, harshness, vitriol, asperity, bile, spleen, causticness or causticity, bite, mordacity or mordaciousness, sharpness, rancidness or rancidity; venom, poison, rancour: Once more he experienced the gall of disappointment. 2 impudence, insolence, impertinence, audacity, brashness, brazenness, sauciness, effrontery, temerity, overconfidence, front, Colloq brass, nerve, guts, cheek, lip, crust, sauce, US and Canadian chutzpah, moxie; Slang balls: One student had the gall to suggest that he would be a better teacher than I am.
GAME|0|n. 1 amusement, pastime, diversion, distraction, recreation, play; sport: She regards love as just a game. 2 contest, competition, meeting or US also meet, tournament or US also tourney, match, encounter, engagement, event, round; regatta: Would you like to see a football game? The games are held annually. 3 scheme, plan, plot, design, stratagem, strategy, tactic, artifice, trick, device(s), ploy: Aha! I am on to your little game! 4 occupation, line (of work), job, position, field, business, trade, profession, Slang racket: She is in the advertising game. 5 quarry, prey; victim, target: Game has been plentiful this year, especially pheasant and quail. He is fair game for any unscrupulous swindler. 6 play games. dissemble, dissimulate, be deceitful or underhand, misrepresent, pretend, practise deceit or deception, fake, feign: She wasn't serious about selling, she was just playing games. --adj. 7 ready, willing, prepared; plucky or spirited or daring or adventurous enough: She's game for anything: I'm sure she'll jump at the chance of scuba-diving lessons. 8 plucky, spirited, high-spirited, daring, devil-may-care, adventurous, unflinching, courageous, brave, bold, heroic, Colloq nervy, gutsy: Entering the cave to rescue the dog was a game thing for him to do. --v. 9 gamble: He has taken up gaming as a hobby.
GANG|0|n. 1 group, band, crowd, company, pack, mob, ring: The police are looking for the gang that robbed the mail train. 2 clique, set, coterie, circle, party, company, team, troupe: A whole gang of my friends came over yesterday evening. --v. 3 gang up (on or against.) conspire or plot against, combine or unite or unify or join (against), league or ally or club or band (against), join forces (against), overwhelm: When they all ganged up on me, I decided to change my mind.
GAPE|0|v. 1 stare, gawk, goggle, Slang rubberneck, Brit gawp or gaup: She gaped when they brought in the boar's head. 2 yawn, open wide, part; split: The jaws of the huge shark gaped to swallow the diver.
GASH|0|n. 1 cut, slash, wound, score, cleft, incision, laceration, slit, groove, split: The chisel slipped, cutting a deep gash in the table. --v. 2 cut, slash, wound, score, cleave, incise, lacerate, slit, groove, split: I've gashed my hand on a rusty nail.
GASP|0|v. 1 pant, gulp for air, fight for air or breath; catch one's breath, snort, huff, puff: I gasped when I saw the condition of the room. --n. 2 snort, puff, blow, gulp, wheeze: He gave a gasp of horror.
GATE|0|n. 1 gateway, barrier, doorway, door, access, entrance, exit, passage, opening: The garden gate sagged on its hinges. 2 admissions, attendance, crowd, audience, assemblage: We had the biggest gate of the year at yesterday's game.
GAWK|0|n. 1 oaf, lout, bumpkin, clod, boor, churl, dolt, dunderhead or dunderpate, ninny, ninny-hammer, ignoramus, fool, simpleton, ass, bungler, bumbler, Colloq clodhopper, lummox, Slang chiefly US old-fashioned galoot or galloot, lug: You big gawk, get out of my way! --v. 2 stare, goggle, gape, Colloq rubberneck, Slang Brit gawp or gaup: Stop gawking and help me get him to a hospital.
GAZE|0|v. 1 look at or on or upon or over, view, regard, contemplate, stare; wonder, gape: She stood gazing out to sea. I gazed at the screen in disbelief. --n. 2 fixed or steady or intent look, stare, look: His gaze faltered and he averted his eyes.
GEAR|0|n. 1 cog, cog-wheel; gearbox, mechanism, machinery; works: This gear operates the automatic doors. 2 equipment, apparatus, appliances, implements, tools, tackle, utensils, supplies, material(s), accessories, accoutrements or US also accouterments, appurtenances, paraphernalia, panoply, outfit, trappings, fixtures, materiel or mat÷riel: Have you taken all the camping gear? 3 clothing, apparel, attire, clothes, garments, habit, habiliments, vestments, raiment, regalia, uniform, livery, Colloq duds, togs, Brit clobber: You should keep your gear in your locker. 4 belongings, things, stuff, effects, kit, effects, chattels, goods, impedimenta, (bag and) baggage, accoutrements, Colloq junk, Slang shit: Get your gear together and get out of here! --v. 5 adjust, adapt, fit, suit, tailor, accommodate: You will have to gear your schedule according to our plans.
GERM|0|n. 1 micro-organism, microbe, bacterium, virus, Colloq bug: Germs were not conceived of before Leeuwenhoek's invention of the microscope. 2 source, origin, fount, embryo, seed, root, rudiment, beginning, start, base, basis: The germ of romantic literature lies in folk-tales.
GIBE|0|v. 1 jibe (at), jeer (at), scoff (at), flout, mock, deride, make fun of, poke fun at, ridicule, twit, taunt, sneer (at), chaff, tease, rag, heckle, No. Eng. dialect gird, Colloq kid, rib, US and Canadian razz: All of us at school used to gibe at David because he wore fancy clothes. --n. 2 jibe, jeer, taunt, sneer, dig, cutting remark, thrust, chaff, raillery, scoffing, derision, ridicule, mockery, Rare mycterism, Slang crack, wisecrack: David paid no attention to his classmates' gibes.
GIFT|0|n. 1 present, donation, favour, grant, largesse, bounty, benefaction, offering, honorarium, contribution, give-away, premium, bonus, prize; alms, hand-out, dole, charity, benefit; tip, gratuity, baksheesh or backsheesh, pourboire, cumshaw: Before we left, our neighbours made a gift to us of some local pottery. 2 talent, ability, aptitude, genius, flair, knack, facility, forte, strength, strong point, bent, capability, capacity, power: Her family never recognized her special gifts.
GIRL|0|n. 1 female, woman, lass, (young) lady, miss, mademoiselle, wench, Fräulein, maid, maiden, damsel, demoiselle, Irish colleen, Australian and New Zealand sheila, Colloq chick, filly, gal, Slang bird, frail, skirt, piece, mouse, Brit crumpet, bit of skirt or stuff, Old-fashioned Brit popsy, US dame, broad, (bit of) San Quentin quail or jail-bait: His mother wants to introduce him to a nice girl. 2 girlfriend, sweetheart; betrothed, fianc÷e; mistress, lover, friend, live-in lover, inamorata, tally, US POSSLQ (= 'Person of the Opposite Sex Sharing Living Quarters'), Colloq Brit popsy, Slang moll, US twist, squeeze: She's his girl and she'll stick by him.
GIST|0|n. essence, core, heart, substance, point, theme, quintessence, pith, meat, marrow, focus, nub, significance, (main or basic) idea; direction, drift: It will save time if I tell you the gist of the argument.
GIVE|0|v. 1 present, deliver, pass (over), turn or hand over, confer, vouchsafe, provide, supply, furnish, bestow, donate, accord, afford, award, hand out, contribute, distribute, grant, allow, transfer, make over, entrust: Please give me the envelope. I have given the files to the tax inspector. Give freely to charity. 2 exchange, pay, transfer, trade, barter, swap or swop: Philippa gave a week's salary for that dress. 3 impart, pass on, communicate, transmit, send, convey, express: Give my regards to Broadway. 4 afflict with, cause, occasion: Rock music gives me a headache. 5 sacrifice, devote, dedicate, yield (up), surrender, give up, cede, concede, consign, apply (oneself) to: Those monks have given their lives to the study of Scripture. 6 present, offer; announce, introduce: Ladies and gentlemen, I give you Madja Kiziamainska, the Polish Nightingale! 7 present, announce, offer, recite, sing, act, perform, read, put on: We were asked to give a performance for charity. 8 utter, emit, give out (with), issue: He gave a shout to warn us. 9 yield, relax, give way, fail, collapse, buckle, break down, fall or come apart: If that pillar gives, the balcony will come down. 10 cause, lead, induce, persuade, make, prompt, move, dispose: I was given to understand that I was not welcome. 11 cede, relinquish, concede, allow, surrender, yield: He gave me the first game but I lost the second. 12 give away. a See 1, above. b reveal, betray, let out, divulge, disclose, expose, inform on, uncover, leak, let slip; let the cat out of the bag; Colloq blow the whistle on, Slang rat on, US fink on: The traitor gave me away, and I was arrested. 13 give in. yield, submit, give up, give ground, back away (from), back off, capitulate, surrender, admit defeat: After trying for hours to make him change his mind, he finally gave in. 14 give off. give out, emit, exude, exhale, discharge, send or throw out, release, smell of: Her clothing gave off a scent of lavender. 15 give out. a See 14, above. b di...
GLAD|0|adj. 1 happy, pleased, contented, gratified, satisfied; delighted, thrilled, joyful, overjoyed, tickled, Colloq tickled pink or to death, pleased as Punch, Slang Brit chuffed: I am genuinely glad to see you. 2 (ready and) willing, happy, keen, eager, (well-)disposed, inclined, ready: I would be glad to help you, madam.
GLEE|0|n. delight, exuberance, cheerfulness, high or good spirits, cheer, exhilaration, elation, exultation, joy, happiness, rapture, gladness, felicity, pleasure, joyfulness, merriment, jubilation, joyousness, joviality, jollity, gaiety, mirthfulness; enjoyment, satisfaction, Schadenfreude: We watched with great glee as the villain was thwarted.
GLIB|0|adj. ready, fluent, smooth, slick, facile, smooth-spoken, smooth-tongued, smooth-talking, fast-talking, fluid, easy, unctuous, suave, nonchalant, superficial: Why must obituary notices always be so glib?
GLOW|0|n. 1 luminosity, phosphorescence, incandescence, light, lambency, lustre: The surface of the flying saucer emitted a faint green glow. 2 light, brightness, gleam, luminousness, brilliance, radiance, resplendence, splendour, effulgence: The glow in the east is from a forest fire. 3 flush, blush, redness, ruddiness, burning, excitement, warmth, fervour, fervency, enthusiasm, feverishness, thrill, Colloq rush: I can feel a glow just thinking of you. --v. 4 shine, radiate, incandesce, phosphoresce, glimmer, gleam, light up: The numerals on the clock were glowing in the dark. 5 heat, overheat, burn; ablate: The spaceship began to glow as it entered the atmosphere. 6 flush, bloom, colour, blush: As you can see from her complexion, she simply glows with good health. 7 blush, flush, redden, colour, turn red or scarlet: My cheeks glowed with embarrassment.
GLUE|0|n. 1 cement, adhesive, mucilage, gum, paste: You need a specialist glue to mend a break like that. --v. 2 cement, paste, stick, affix, fix, seal: Let's glue this picture into the album.
GLUM|0|adj. gloomy, sullen, morose, dispirited, woebegone, dismal, sad, sulky, dour, moody, sour, crestfallen, doleful, down, low, pessimistic, lugubrious, saturnine: After Irena left, I was feeling rather glum.
GLUT|0|n. 1 excess, surplus, over-abundance, superabundance, surfeit, oversupply, overflow, superfluity, nimiety: The glut of razor-blades in the market is due to increased production. 2 saturation, glutting, satiation: Glut leads to a lowering of prices. --v. 3 oversupply, flood, saturate, swamp, inundate, deluge, overload, overstock, clog, stuff, gorge: The markets will soon be glutted with mobile telephones. 4 satiate, sate, choke, cram, overload, overfeed, gorge, surfeit, pall, cloy, jade, sicken, weary: Everyone was thoroughly glutted before the wedding reception was over.
GNAW|0|v. 1 chew, nibble, eat, bite, champ: The marks were made by deer gnawing the bark. 2 erode, eat away, corrode, wear down or away, fret, consume, devour: The acid continues to gnaw away at the metal till it is gone. 3 fret, irritate, harry, hector, pester, worry, bother, plague, trouble, torment, torture, distress, badger, harass, haunt, nag, vex, gall, nettle, irk, peeve, annoy: The feeling that something was very wrong continued to gnaw at her.
GOAL|0|n. object, aim, purpose, end, objective, target, ambition, ideal, aspiration: Fletcher's goal is to be head of the company.
GOOD|0|adj. 1 agreeable, satisfactory, commendable, acceptable, fair, adequate, admissible, tolerable, all right, passable, Colloq okay or OK: According to the reviews, the new opera is good but not great. 2 admirable, outstanding, first-rate, first-class, fine, superb, superior, tiptop, extraordinary, exemplary, choice, excellent, capital, marvellous, wonderful, splendid, sterling, Colloq super(-duper), great, smashing, A1 or A-1 or A-one, Brit cracking, brilliant, amazing, ace, knockout, brill, fantastic, terrific, unbelievable, groovy, fab, fabulous, crucial, serious, US bad, Old-fashioned Brit tickety-boo, No. Eng. champion, Chiefly US A-OK: I thought that was a really good dinner. 3 correct, proper, decorous, orderly, right, seemly, fit, fitting, suitable, meet, appropriate, allowable, permissible, admissible, passable, satisfactory, tolerable: He should get time off for good behaviour. 4 obedient, well-behaved, proper, well-mannered: Why can't you be a good boy when we go out? 5 moral, high-minded, righteous, noble, wholesome, chaste, pure, honourable, ethical, upstanding, upright, virtuous, worthy, lofty, elevated, saintly, angelic, godly, godlike: Think only good thoughts and still you may not get to heaven. 6 kind, benevolent, beneficent, gracious, gentle, kindly, nice, considerate, friendly, solicitous, good-hearted, sympathetic, benign, charitable, humane, kind-hearted, well-disposed: Her parents have always been good to me. 7 fresh, unspoilt, edible, consumable, palatable: These eggs are good but the milk has gone off. 8 genuine, valid, legitimate, authentic, honest, proper, reliable, secure, dependable, safe, creditable, sound, solid, substantial, well-founded, trustworthy, honest, actual, real; credible, believable, convincing, compelling, cogent: Have you a good reason for saying that? 9 honourable, esteemed, respected, respectable, well-thought-of, reputable, established, solid: They say that he comes from a good family. 10 well-proportioned, shapely, attra...
GORE|0|n. blood, carnage, butchery, slaughter, bloodshed: The current crop of horror films have too much gore for my taste.
GORY|0|adj. bloody, sanguinary, blood-soaked, bloodstained; gruesome, grisly, horrific, blood-curdling: The scene was so gory as to turn the strongest stomach.
GRAB|0|v. 1 snatch, lay or catch hold of, fasten upon, grasp, seize; catch, grip, clutch; Colloq latch on to, get one's hands or fingers on, nab, US snag: The thief grabbed my purse and ran. She grabbed the railing to break her fall. 2 appropriate, expropriate, seize, commandeer, take over, usurp, arrogate: The general grabbed the reins of government in the coup. 3 arrest, capture, catch, Colloq nab, pinch, collar: The police grabbed him as he was leaving the scene of the crime. --n. 4 snatch, clutch; grasp, grip: I made a grab for the rope.
GREY|0|adj. 1 ashen, leaden, colourless, pale, pallid, wan, livid, pearly, griseous, smoky, sooty, bloodless: The cadaver's skin was a dead, whitish grey. 2 gloomy, dismal, dull, depressing, glum, dreary, sombre, drab, cheerless, dark, murky, foggy, misty, cloudy, overcast, sunless: As if to mould her temperament, Kathleen was born on a grey December day in 1791. 3 aged, elderly, hoary, old, venerable, ancient: A stooped, grey crone inched along, muttering to herself. 4 mature, wise, experienced: Seventy years have spread their grey experience over his hoary head.
GRIM|0|adj. 1 stern, severe, unrelenting, resolute, uncompromising, unyielding, inflexible, adamant, stony, iron, unbending, firm, intractable, unflinching, unmoving, unmoved, implacable, inexorable, determined, steadfast, (dead) set, fixed, decided, obstinate, headstrong, stubborn, obdurate, dogged, unwavering: By controlling the purse strings, she kept a grim hold over the family. 2 forbidding, formidable, harsh, ferocious, fierce, cruel, savage, merciless, heartless, ruthless, pitiless, vicious, brutal, brutish, feral, inhuman, fiendish, violent, bloodthirsty, murderous, homicidal, fell: A grim pack of howling wolves loped after our sledge. 3 dire, dreadful, ghastly, awful, frightful, frightening, sinister, hideous, horrid, horrific, horrible, horrendous, terrible, terrifying, terrific, harrowing, dread, alarming, appalling, grotesque, gruesome, eerie, macabre, flagitious, heinous, evil, wicked, iniquitous, atrocious, monstrous: Before me appeared the ghostly apparition of the Grim Reaper.
GRIP|0|n. 1 hold, grasp, clutch, handgrip, clasp, hand-clasp: Losing his grip on the rope, he plummeted into the abyss. 2 control, command, hold, mastery; authority, influence, power, rule, domination, sovereignty, tenure, dominion, suzerainty, custody: Peter is losing his grip on reality. The dictator kept a tight grip on the people right up to his death. 3 grasp, understanding, apprehension, comprehension, sense, sensitivity, feel, feeling, awareness, perception, view, Slang US handle: Skerry is having trouble getting a grip on what you plan to do. 4 handgrip, valise, (travelling or overnight) bag, case, satchel, suitcase, Brit holdall, US and Canadian carry-all: I got off the plane in New York, but my grip went on to Detroit. 5 come or get to grips with. tackle, confront, approach, handle, meet (head on), undertake, grapple or contend with, cope or deal with, face: We must come to grips with the problem of Cassandra. --v. 6 grasp, clutch, clasp, hold, seize: He gripped the handle of the revolver more tightly. 7 engross, engage, hold, fascinate, enthral, entrance, absorb, mesmerize, hypnotize, spellbind, rivet: Just at the gripping climax, the reel broke and the film stopped.
GRIT|0|n. courage, courageousness, valour, bravery, fortitude, resolution, resoluteness, resolve, toughness, mettle, pluck, spirit, backbone, nerve, gameness, intrepidity or intrepidness, dauntlessness, tenacity, determination, firmness, hardiness, hardihood, staunchness, stalwartness, doughtiness, fearlessness, Colloq guts, gutsiness, spunk, spunkiness, starch, Brit bottle, US and Canadian chutzpah, moxie, stick-to-it-iveness: Mountain-climbing requires more grit than you might think.
GROW|0|v. 1 flourish, develop, increase, become larger or greater, enlarge, wax, swell, expand, broaden, thicken, spread, lengthen, multiply, burgeon or bourgeon, thrive, luxuriate, prosper, mature, ripen, bloom, flower, blossom, fructify, bear or yield fruit: The seeds he had planted grew abundantly. The population continues to grow. 2 develop, evolve, arise, issue, stem, spring (up), originate: A great friendship grew out of their association. 3 plant, cultivate, breed, nurture, raise, propagate, produce; sow: Cathcart grows sorghum where he used to grow alfalfa. 4 become, get: I am growing fonder of you every day, Abbie. 5 grow on. get or become accepted by, come or begin to be liked by, to gain or increase in interest or attraction to, become more pleasing to: I didn't like her at first, but she grows on you. 6 grow up. mature, reach or attain maturity or adulthood, come of age, reach one's majority: Those who grew up in the Great Depression knew real poverty.
GULF|0|n. 1 bay, bight, cove, inlet, sound, loch or sea loch, firth or frith, fiord or fjord, Irish lough, Brit creek: We sailed into the gulf to shelter from the wind behind the cliffs. 2 chasm, deep, depth, abyss, abysm, void, space, opening, rift, breach, gap, separation, rift, split: After the divorce, the gulf between us widened even further.
GULP|0|v. 1 bolt, gobble, wolf (down), devour, gorge, swallow, throw down, toss off, quaff, guzzle, swill, Colloq knock back, swig, US chug-a-lug: The boy gulped his dinner and ran out to play. 2 swallow, suppress, stifle, choke (back), smother, strangle: She gulped back her tears as the coffin was lowered. --n. 3 mouthful, swallow, draught, swill, Colloq swig: He took a gulp of his drink before making another bid.
GUSH|0|v. 1 cascade, rush, flood, stream, spurt, jet, spout, burst; run, flow: The water gushed out of the pipe, soaking us all. 2 bubble over, overflow, be ebullient or effusive or effervescent, effervesce, make much of, fuss over, prattle, chatter, babble, jabber, blather or blether, Colloq Brit natter, witter: It was impossible to stop them from gushing on about the performance. --n. 3 cascade, rush, flood, flow, stream, spurt, jet, spout, burst, torrent: A gush of water hit me right in the face. 4 exuberance, effusion, bubbling over, outburst: After the first gush of enthusiasm, everything quieted down.
GUST|0|n. 1 puff, blow, wind, breeze, blast: A gust of wind blew my hat off. --v. 2 puff, blow, blast, surge, increase: The wind gusted up to gale force overnight.
HACK|0|v. 1 chop, hew, lacerate, gash, slash, cut; mangle, butcher, mutilate, ruin, destroy, smash, batter, damage, deface: He hacked the furniture to pieces with an axe. 2 bark, cough: She was disgusted by the man's hacking and spitting. --n. 3 cut, gash, slash, chop: He took a hack at the log with his hatchet.
HAIL|0|v. 1 greet, accost, address, signal, call: Robert hailed us from across the road. 2 cheer, salute, applaud, approve, glorify, praise, laud, honour, acclaim, congratulate, felicitate, acknowledge: He was hailed by all for his charitable work.
HAIR|0|n. 1 tresses, locks, mane, curls, ringlets; braids, plaits: You will recognize her by her red hair. 2 hair's breadth, whisker, trifle, fraction, skin of one's teeth: He won the race by a hair.
HALE|0|adj. healthy, hearty, fit (as a fiddle), sound, able-bodied, hardy, wholesome, robust, flourishing, in good or fine fettle, in the pink: Her grandmother was as hale and hearty as ever.
HALL|0|n. 1 corridor, hallway, passageway, passage; foyer, entry, entry-way, lobby, vestibule: Let us step out into the hall for a brief word. 2 auditorium, assembly or meeting or convention hall, theatre, amphitheatre, hired hall; lecture-room, lecture-hall, classroom: We hired a hall for the wedding reception.
HALO|0|n. nimbus, aura, aureole or aureola, corona, radiance, Painting vesica, mandorla; ring, disc, circle, annulation, annulus: The saints can be identified by the golden halos round their heads.
HALT|0|n. 1 stop, standstill, end, termination, close, stoppage, cessation: We must call a halt to absenteeism in the factory. --v. 2 stop, quit, end, terminate, cease, check, curb, stem, discontinue, desist, bring or come or draw to an end or close, put an end or stop to, conclude, shut or close down or up: We halted when we came to the river. The guerrillas halted the armoured column at the pass.
HAND|0|n. 1 Slang mitt, paw, US lunch-hook: Keep your hands off me, you oaf! 2 help, aid, assistance, helping hand, relief, boost; leg up: Please give me a hand with this trunk. 3 influence, agency, participation, involvement, part, share: Did you have a hand in my getting the appointment? 4 (manual) labourer, worker, workman, man, help, employee: It's getting harder to find hands for the farm. 5 pointer, indicator, index: The minute hand covers the hour hand at noon and midnight. 6 (round of) applause, ovation, clap: Give the lad a hand for trying. 7 handwriting, penmanship, script; calligraphy: The writing was in a hand that she could not recognize. 8 Often, hands. control, hold, grasp, possession, custody, clutches, keeping, power, disposal, jurisdiction, authority, supervision, management, guardianship, care: At last, the government is in the hands of the people. 9 at hand. nearby, close, near, close by, handy, (readily) available, to or on hand, at one's fingertips, convenient, within (arm's) reach, accessible, present; approaching, imminent, around the corner: He always kept a pistol at hand. The Day of Judgement is at hand. 10 hand in glove. hand in hand, in league, together, in collusion, collusively, connivingly, conspiringly, intimately, closely, jointly, Colloq in cahoots: An informer is working hand in glove with the police. 11 hand in hand. together, side by side, hand in glove: They walked hand in hand down the road. 12 hand-over-fist. quickly, speedily, rapidly, swiftly, steadily, like mad: He makes money hand-over-fist in the stock market. 13 hands down. easily, readily, effortlessly: He can win the marathon hands down. --v. 14 give, pass, deliver, present to or with: Please hand me the hammer. 15 hand down or on or over. a bequeath, will, pass on; transfer, turn over: The farm has been handed down from father to son for seven generations. b See 18 (a), below. 16 hand in. submit, give in, tender, proffer, offer: I handed in my resignation. 17 hand out. dist...
HANG|0|v. 1 suspend, depend, dangle; be poised or suspended, hover, swing: Hang the lantern from this branch. The laundry was hanging on the line. 2 gibbet, send to the gallows, lynch, execute, kill, Colloq string up, stretch: They hanged two murderers this morning. 3 drape, fall: The skirt isn't hanging straight. 4 hang about or around. a loiter, wait, linger, dally, idle, tarry , Colloq hang out: He hangs about after school every day, waiting for Susan. b Also, hang about or around (with). frequent, haunt, visit, spend time at; associate with, socialize with, hobnob with, rub elbows with, consort with, fraternize with, mix or mingle with, Colloq hang out (with): He hangs about the Golden Crown. I saw him hanging around with some pretty unsavoury characters. 5 hang back (from). be reluctant, recoil (from), shrink (from), hesitate, falter, stay away (from): Move to the front of the queue and don't hang back. 6 hang fire. be delayed, remain unsettled or unfinished, be in suspense or abeyance; stall, hold up, delay: The decision will hang fire till after the election. 7 hang on. a Also, hang on to. hold on (to), cling (to), clutch, grip, grasp, grab: Hang on to me when we're crossing the street. b wait, stay, stop: Hang on a minute - what did you call me? c wait, persist, remain, carry on, persevere, go on, hold out, endure, hold the phone, Colloq US hang in there: Hang on a minute, I have to put down the phone to get a pencil. d Also, hang on to or upon. listen carefully or attentively, give one's undivided attention, be rapt: She hung on every word the guru uttered. e depend or rely (on), be dependent or contingent (on), be subject (to), be conditioned or conditional (on): The entire project now hangs on their approval of the budget. 8 hang one's head. be ashamed or humiliated or abashed or humbled or embarrassed: She hung her head as the store detective confronted her with the stolen goods. 9 hang out. See 5 (a), above. 10 hang over. be put off or postponed or delayed: We...
HARD|0|adj. 1 rigid, stiff, solid, inflexible, firm, dense, condensed, compressed, close, solidified, hardened; stony, rocklike, concrete, petrified, granite(-like), flinty, steely; tough, rugged, leathery, callous; unyielding, adamant(ine), impenetrable, obdurate, impervious, impregnable: The cement gets hard in an hour. This steak is as hard as shoe-leather. The metal was so hard that I broke three drills trying to make a hole in it. 2 difficult, laborious, arduous, back-breaking, burdensome, onerous, fatiguing, tiring, exhausting, wearying, strenuous, tough, toilsome: Laying track for the railway is a very hard job. 3 difficult, perplexing, knotty, puzzling, baffling, enigmatic, intricate, complicated, complex, tangled, involved, thorny, incomprehensible, inscrutable, unsolvable, insoluble, Colloq tough: There were a lot of hard questions in the exam. 4 stern, cold, callous, intractable, exacting, strict, demanding, hard-hearted, stony-hearted, severe, tyrannical, despotic, dictatorial, magisterial, oppressive, cruel, ruthless, pitiless, merciless, savage, brutal, brutish, inhuman, heartless, harsh, unkind, implacable, unsympathetic, dispassionate, uncompassionate, unfeeling, obdurate, indurate; unsentimental, insensitive, thick-skinned, tough, hard-boiled, stony, hardbitten, unfeeling, unsparing: Hemel is a hard taskmaster. Of the prison warders, each was harder than the next. He advocates taking a hard line against white-collar crime. 5 bad, difficult, grievous, calamitous, racking, disastrous, dark, grim, distressing, devastating, agonizing, painful, unpleasant, severe, austere, Colloq tough, rough: The years of the Great Depression were hard for everyone. 6 cool, unemotional, calculating, uncompromising, methodical, critical, systematic, practical, pragmatic, businesslike, realistic, penetrating, searching, hard-headed, Colloq tough, hard-nosed: Shareholders should take a hard look at the annual report. Chapelle drives a hard bargain. 7 sedulous, assiduous, devoted,...
HARM|0|n. 1 injury, damage, mischief, hurt, abuse, misfortune: A bodyguard was hired to see that no harm would come to her. 2 evil, wrongdoing, wickedness, iniquity, wrong, badness: I meant no harm when I told Phoebe that her husband was having dinner with Kathy. --v. 3 hurt, damage, injure, abuse, maltreat, wound: She insists that her pet viper would never harm her.
HASH|0|n. 1 mixture, confusion, hotchpotch or US and Canadian hodgepodge, pot-pourri, gallimaufry, farrago, mishmash, jumble, mess, shambles, olla podrida, m÷lange, medley: The building is a hash of a dozen architectural styles. 2 fiasco, disaster, botch, mess, Slang Brit balls-up, US snafu: The council really made a hash of its housing policy. --v. 3 Often, hash up. mangle, mess or mix up, make a hash or mess or jumble of, muddle, bungle, botch, mishandle, mismanage, ruin, spoil, butcher, Colloq foul or louse up, screw up, muff, Brit bugger up: Our plans for a holiday have been all hashed up.
HATE|0|v. 1 loathe, abhor, detest, have an aversion to, be averse to, abominate, dislike, execrate, despise, scorn: I hate the smell of petrol, it really turns my stomach. 2 be loath, be reluctant or unwilling or disinclined; resist, shrink or flinch from, dislike, shrink from: I hate to tell you what I really think. She hated revealing Bill's affair to his wife. --n. 3 hatred, abhorrence, loathing, odium, animosity, animus, antipathy, aversion, hostility, antagonism, malice, enmity, detestation: He didn't believe he could feel so much hate for one person.
HAUL|0|v. 1 drag, pull, tug, tow, trail, lug, heave, draw: Are you sure that one horse can haul that load? 2 cart, transport, carry, convey, truck, move: The new vehicles are equipped to haul bulk dry goods. --n. 3 pull, tug, drag, draw; heave; attraction: The tides are greater under the haul of both sun and moon. 4 catch, take, yield, harvest, bag: We returned with quite a good haul of cod.
HAVE|0|v. 1 possess, own, keep; maintain: Imelda had more shoes than you could count. 2 receive, take, accept, get, obtain, acquire, procure, secure, take: How many gifts did you say she had from him? 3 entertain, be struck by: I have an idea! 4 possess, bear, contain, include, comprise: The night has a thousand eyes. 5 suffer with or from, be suffering with or from, be experiencing, be undergoing, be enduring, be subjected to: My daughter was really ill when she had measles. 6 arrange, organize, set up, prepare; hold: If I have a party, will you come? We shall have our next meeting on Saturday. 7 partake of, participate in, experience, enjoy; eat; drink: I hope you have a good time. 8 give birth to, bear, deliver, bring into the world; beget, sire, father: She had three children in as many years. How many children has he had? 9 make, demand; force, oblige, cause, induce, press, require, compel: We'll have the caterers come at noon. 10 had better or best. ought to, must, should: I had better not drink as I'm driving. 11 had rather or sooner. prefer to, would rather or sooner: I'd rather be with you. 12 have on. a be wearing, be dressed or clothed or attired in: I'll have on the silk nightgown you like so much. b be committed to, have planned, have in the offing, have on the agenda: I have something on next Tuesday evening. c trick, tease, deceive, pull (someone's) leg, play a joke on, fool: Do you really love me or are you having me on?
HEAD|0|n. 1 skull, pate, cranium, Colloq dome, Slang coco(nut), belfry, noggin, bean, nut, rocker, noodle, gourd, Brit conk, crumpet, noddle, loaf: She laid her head on the pillow and fell sound asleep. 2 chief, leader, administrator, chief executive officer, CEO, (managing) director, MD, president, chairman, chairwoman, chairlady, chairperson, chair, employer, principal, superintendent, supervisor, governor, prime minister, headmaster, headmistress, Colloq boss, headman, the man, Brit guv'nor, guv, US (chief) honcho; Slang big cheese, US Mr Big: The new head has called a meeting of the board of directors. 3 front, vanguard, forefront, van, fore-part: At the head of the column marched the general himself. 4 aptitude, intellect, intelligence, talent, perception, perceptiveness, mentality, faculty, flair, genius, brain, mind, wit, Colloq brains, grey matter: I have no head for figures. 5 crisis, apex, (critical or turning) point, peak, crest, (fever) pitch, climax, culmination, conclusion, crescendo: Matters have been brought to a head because of the coming elections. 6 source, origin, fount, font, fountain-head, well-spring: We were trying to reach the head of the stream before nightfall. 7 top, first place, leading position, leadership, forefront: Albert is at the head of his class in mathematics. 8 head over heels. completely, entirely, deeply, utterly, wholly, fully, Colloq madly, wildly: The two of them are head over heels in love. --adj. 9 first, chief, main, principal, leading, premier, foremost, prime, pre-eminent, cardinal, paramount, supreme, superior, senior: Alphonse is our new head chef. --v. 10 go, move, proceed, turn, steer, aim, point, head for, make a beeline for: I shall head home when I leave here. 11 head up, be in or take charge (of), direct, supervise, oversee, control, govern, run, (take the) lead, guide, manage, command, rule, administer, conduct: Who will head the organization if you resign? 12 lead, precede, top: Charlotte heads the list of candidat...
HEAL|0|v. 1 cure, repair, renew, revitalize, rejuvenate, restore; mend, recuperate, recover, improve: The wounds have healed. The ointment healed his wounds. I heal quickly. 2 reconcile, settle, patch up, put or set straight or right, remedy, repair, mend: His only wish was to heal the rift with his brother.
HEAP|0|n. 1 collection, pile, mound, stack, accumulation, aggregation, agglomeration, congeries, conglomeration, hoard, mass, store, mountain, stockpile, supply, Colloq US and Canadian stash: Donors contributed a huge heap of clothing for the sale. 2 Often, heaps. abundance, plethora, superabundance, lot(s), plenty, great deal, scores, peck, sea, Colloq lashings, load(s), piles, ton(s), raft(s), pots, oodles, scad(s), US and Canadian slew: It was served with heaps of chocolate sauce. Heaps of people bought your record. You're in for a heap of trouble. --v. 3 collect, gather, harvest, reap, glean, garner, pile (up), accumulate, cumulate, aggregate, amass, stockpile, save (up), bank, lay by or up or in, set aside, Colloq stash (away): In autumn, squirrels heap up their supplies of nuts for the winter. 4 shower, load, bestow, give, provide, burden: The grateful prince heaped us with treasure beyond imagination.
HEAR|0|v. 1 perceive, understand, listen (to), attend (to), pay attention (to), catch, heed, hark (to): Please hear what I have to say first. 2 understand, learn, discover, find out, gather, get wind of, pick up, ascertain, be told or advised or informed: I hear you're thinking of resigning. 3 hear of. entertain, consider; approve (of), sanction, condone, agree or consent or assent to: I won't hear of your leaving.
HEAT|0|n. 1 warmth, warmness, hotness, fever, fieriness, torridity or torridness: The heat of the sun feels good after that cold swim. 2 passion, ardour, fervour, fervidness, intensity, fury, zeal, zealousness, earnestness, vehemence, eagerness, enthusiasm, excitement, tenseness, tension, stress, agitation, arousal, impetuosity, stimulation, exhilaration: If I shouted at you in the heat of the moment, I apologize. --v. 3 warm (up): It costs a lot to heat this house. 4 Often, heat up. excite, intensify, impassion, inflame, kindle, ignite, quicken, inspirit, rouse, awaken or waken, stir, animate, stimulate, warm (up), activate, Colloq Brit hot up: It took a while for the debate to heat up.
HEED|0|v. 1 pay attention to, attend, (take or make) note (of), listen to, mark, consider, bear in mind; take, follow, obey, mind, respect, accept, abide by: I wish I had heeded her suggestions for redecorating the house. Heeding his advice, I joined the army. --n. 2 attention, notice, ear, mind, notice, respect, consideration, thought: Let us give heed to the speaker's admonitions.
HEEL|0|n. 1 end, butt or tail or fag (end), stump, remainder, remnant, rind, crust: You can always freeze the heel of a loaf to use at some later date for breadcrumbs. 2 cad, scoundrel, swine, rogue, scamp, philanderer, Old-fashioned worm, knave, Chiefly Brit blackguard, Colloq Brit rotter, Old-fashioned bounder, Slang bastard, Brit sod: He's an absolute heel - he got her pregnant and then left her. 3 down at heel. US also down at the heels; poor, destitute, impoverished, down and out, on (one's) uppers, in straitened circumstances; shabby, seedy, dowdy, run-down, slovenly, Brit out at elbows, US out at the elbows, Colloq broke, strapped: Farrington looked down at heel, so I slipped him a fiver. 4 take to (one's) heels. take flight, flee, escape, run off or away, show a clean pair of heels, Colloq split, Brit do a moonlight flit, US take a (run-out) powder, fly the coop, Australian and New Zealand shoot through: When I mentioned payment, she took to her heels. --v. 5 dog, follow (closely), shadow, chase, pursue: We have taught our puppy to heel.
HEIR|0|n. heiress, beneficiary, inheritor, legatee, successor: What if you are not the rightful heir to the estate?
HELL|0|n. 1 Erebus, Hades, Acheron, Tartarus, Gehenna, Tophet, Abaddon, Pandemonium, Dis, Sheol, Avernus, underworld, infernal regions, abyss, abode of the damned, inferno, hell-fire, lower world, nether regions, bottomless pit, other place: For his sins he was condemned to everlasting hell. 2 chaos, misery, torment, agony, torture, ordeal, nightmare, trial: The office has been an absolute hell since you left. 3 anguish, pain, agony, torment, torture, misery, suffering, affliction: We have been through hell since Grenville's heart attack. 4 criticism, censure; scolding, castigation, reprimand, upbraiding: My mother gave me hell for getting home late.
HELM|0|n. 1 tiller, wheel, rudder, steering gear or apparatus: I had to put the helm over hard to avoid hitting the pier. 2 directorship, presidency, chairmanship, leadership, control, rule, command, Colloq driver's seat, saddle: Arthur remained at the helm of the company for 40 years.
HELP|0|v. 1 aid, assist, lend a hand, support, serve; succour: Let me help you carry that package, Mrs Smith. His charitable efforts have long helped the poor. 2 relieve, alleviate, mitigate, improve, facilitate, ease, better, remedy, cure: Complaining about it won't help the situation. 3 stop, refrain from, avoid, eschew, resist, keep from, forbear, escape: I know it was a secret but I couldn't help telling Sam. 4 assist, serve, advise, inform: May I help you, sir? 5 help oneself. appropriate, take, arrogate, commandeer, expropriate; steal, purloin, usurp, plagiarize, pirate, Colloq pinch, lift, Brit nick, US boost: She helped herself to some money from the till. --n. 6 aid, support, succour, assistance: I need help in solving this problem. 7 employee(s), worker(s), staff, helper(s), hand(s), assistant(s), labourer(s), domestic(s), servant(s), Brit daily (help): We have to hire more help to finish on time. 8 supporter, aide, assistant, helper: You have been a great help to me. 9 relief, remedy, cure, balm: This ointment has been a great help in stopping the itching.
HERD|0|n. 1 group, pack, bunch, cluster, flock, crowd, multitude, host, horde, throng, mass, swarm, press, crush; assemblage, collection: A herd of protesters gathered before the embassy. 2 common herd, rabble, hoi polloi, great unwashed, riff-raff, masses: How can you expect the herd to understand these principles? --v. 3 gather, congregate, flock, assemble, collect: The reporters herded round to interview the minister. 4 round up, gather (together), shepherd, drive, W US and Canadian wrangle, corral: Herd those cattle into the pen.
HERO|0|n. 1 heroine, champion, exemplar, star, superstar, idol, ideal, man of the hour, luminary, notable, celebrity; knight, paladin, warrior: She was a hero to every aspiring woman lawyer. She expects a hero in shining armour on a white horse to sweep her off her feet. 2 protagonist, (male) lead or star, leading man or actor, principal: G÷rard Depardieu plays the hero in this lavishly produced film.
HIDE|0|v. 1 conceal, secrete, cache, squirrel away; go underground, take cover, lie low, go into hiding, lurk, go to ground, drop out of sight, go into hiding, hibernate, latibulize, Colloq hide out, hole up, lie low, Brit lie doggo: Hide the sweets where the children won't find them. I found a place to hide under the stair. 2 conceal, cover, mask, camouflage, disguise, veil, shroud, screen, cover up, keep secret: He managed to hide his embarrassment. 3 eclipse, blot out, obscure, block: The clouds hid the moon as we made good our escape. 4 suppress, hush (up), repress, silence, keep quiet or secret: She hid all knowledge of the crime.
HIGH|0|adj. 1 tall, lofty, elevated, towering: High mountains surround the valley. 2 extreme, excessive, extraordinary, exorbitant, outrageous, Colloq steep, stiff: Houses in that district are fetching high prices. 3 costly, dear, expensive, high-priced: Shares are not as high as they were before the crash. 4 great, huge, enormous, considerable, strong; violent, turbulent: These wires carry high voltages. The high winds blew down trees. 5 exalted, elevated, lofty, superior, high-class: With insider trading, theft became a high art in the financial world. 6 consequential, important, grave, serious, weighty, momentous, heinous; capital: His activities constitute high treason. 7 high-pitched, high-frequency, squeaky, acute, treble, soprano; shrill, strident, sharp, penetrating, piercing, ear-splitting: The higher notes make my radio speaker vibrate. She has an irritatingly high voice. 8 cheerful, exuberant, elated, boisterous, exhilarated, hilarious, merry, excited: I find his persistent high spirits rather depressing. 9 euphoric, intoxicated, inebriated, drunk, drugged, Colloq loaded, tipsy, turned on, on a trip, Slang stoned, spaced out, Brit squiffy, US spacy, squiffed: They got high sniffing glue. 10 gamy, tainted, aged, ripe, Slang Brit pongy: He likes to hang venison till it is quite high. 11 chief, leading, important, principal, foremost: He regards himself as the high priest of women's fashion. 12 elaborate, luxurious, grand, extravagant, lavish, rich, prodigal, sybaritic: With her millions she can now enjoy the high life. 13 considerable, favourable, great: She is held in high esteem by her colleagues. --adv. 14 far up; great in extent: Daedalus warned Icarus not to fly so high. I was willing to go as high as 20,000 for the painting. --n. 15 peak, record, height, maximum, acme, apex: Employment is expected to reach a high next summer. 16 intoxication, altered consciousness: The high lasts till the drug wears off. 17 anticyclone: The high passing over the country will...
HILL|0|n. 1 elevation, rise, highland, mound, prominence, promontory, eminence, knoll, hillock, hummock, height, foothill, tor, mount, upland, downs or downland, Scots brae, No. Brit fell, W Brit tump, US and Canadian butte: The house is on a hill overlooking the valley. 2 heap, pile, mound, stack; mountain: By the autumn, the hill of compost had reached six feet in height. 3 slope, incline or decline, acclivity or declivity, gradient or esp. US grade, US upgrade or downgrade: Are you sure this car can make it up the next hill?
HINT|0|n. 1 suggestion, clue, implication, inkling, indication, tip, tip-off, intimation, allusion, innuendo, insinuation; pointer, help, advice: The quiz-master gave me a hint and I got the answer at once. 2 trace, suggestion, touch, taste, breath, dash, soupúon, whiff, undertone, tinge, whisper: Which government has ever served without any hint of scandal? --v. 3 suggest, imply, indicate, tip (off), intimate, allude, insinuate, mention, clue, cue, signal, refer, advert: She hinted that I might appeal to her sister.
HIRE|0|v. 1 engage, employ, take on, appoint, enlist, sign on: Alexandra had to hire more people to get all the work done. 2 rent, lease, engage, charter: We hired a car for the day. 3 hire out. rent (out), lease (out), let (out), charter (out): I hire out my boat by the day. --n. 4 rent, lease, charter, letting: Do you have bicycles for hire by the day? 5 (hire) charge, cost, fee, price, rate, rent, rental: How much is the hire of a horse by the hour?
HISS|0|n. 1 hissing, sibilance: Serpents and geese make a sound like a hiss. 2 catcall, jeer, boo, hoot, Slang raspberry, US Bronx cheer: The villain was greeted by hisses from the audience. --v. 3 boo, hoot, jeer, deride, mock, taunt, decry, disparage: The workers hissed and booed the speaker.
HOLD|0|v. 1 grasp, grip, clasp, seize, clutch, keep; carry, Colloq hang on to: She asked me to hold the baby for just a minute while she bought her railway ticket. 2 hug, embrace, clasp, cradle, clench, clutch, enfold: He held me in his arms briefly before the guards led him into the quad. 3 maintain, keep, put: Hold up your hands and kick the gun over here to me. 4 maintain, keep, sustain, absorb, occupy, engage, involve, engross, monopolize: You hold his attention while I try to get round behind him. 5 confine, restrain, detain, contain, coop up: Even a strait-jacket and chains couldn't hold Houdini. 6 imprison, detain, confine, place into custody, put behind bars, jail: He is being held overnight for questioning. 7 believe, deem, judge, consider, regard, look on or upon, maintain, think, esteem, take, assume: What do you hold to be important in life? Father holds me responsible for every little dent in his car. 8 accommodate, support, carry: That little nail won't hold this picture. 9 contain, include, comprise: This suitcase holds everything I own in the world. 10 call, convene, assemble, convoke; run, conduct, engage in, participate in, have, carry on, preside over, officiate at: The next meeting will be held on Tuesday, at noon. 11 apply, hold good, be in effect or in force, stand or hold up, hold or prove or be true, be the case, function, operate, be or remain or prove valid or relevant or applicable or operative, Colloq hold water, wash: What may be in order for Manchester may not necessarily hold for another city. 12 have, possess: She holds two engineering degrees. He was holding four aces. 13 remain or keep (fast), stay, stick: Screws are needed here - nails won't hold. 14 hold back. a restrain, repress, suppress, curb, inhibit, control, check, keep back, hinder: Many reasons hold me back from telling you what I think. b withhold, reserve, deny, keep back, refuse: We ought to hold back payment till the work is completed. 15 hold down. a control, restrain, check...
HOLE|0|n. 1 cavity, pit, hollow, excavation, burrow, crater, cavern, cave, recess, niche, nook, pocket, depression, indentation, dent, impression: The snake disappeared into a hole in the rock. 2 opening, aperture, orifice, perforation, puncture, slit, slot, breach, rip, tear, rent, break, crack, fissure: The water poured through a hole in the pipe. 3 hole in the wall, shack, hut, shanty, slum, hovel; Slang dump, dive, joint: How can anyone live in such a hole? She finally got a job dancing in some hole downtown. 4 cell, prison, dungeon, donjon, keep, jail, oubliette, brig, cage: When he refused to talk, they put him in the hole for a week. 5 difficulty, trouble, dilemma, predicament, situation, fix, corner, Colloq (tight) spot, hot water, scrape, box, bind, pickle, catch-22, mess, muddle: She really got herself into a hole with the tax man. 6 flaw, shortcoming, inconsistency, fault, error, mistake, fallacy, discrepancy, loophole: He never offers anything original but is always ready to pick holes in any suggestion you make. --v. 7 puncture, pierce, perforate: A floating log holed the hull and the boat went down with all aboard.
HOLY|0|adj. 1 sacred, religious, consecrated, sanctified, blessed, hallowed, venerated, divine, heavenly, supernal, celestial: The holy relics are kept in a silver casket. 2 godly, godlike, saintly, saintlike, pious, devout, reverent, reverential, faithful, God-fearing, chaste, pure, unsullied, clean, sinless, spotless, immaculate, undefiled, uncorrupted, untainted: The holy men, in their saffron robes, sat in a circle, contemplating the master of the universe.
HOME|0|n. 1 dwelling-place, residence, domicile, abode, dwelling, house, (living) quarters, habitation, lodging(s), Brit accommodation or US accommodations, Colloq place, Chiefly Brit digs, diggings: He has been a guest in my home on many occasions. 2 (home) base, residency, territory, haunt, home ground, bailiwick, Colloq stamping-ground: As you travel so much, what do you call home these days? 3 hospice, retreat, nursing home, old folks' or people's home, retirement community, almshouse, poorhouse, refuge, haven, institution, shelter, rest-home, US snug harbor: His parents, who are very old and indigent, have been sent to a home. 4 at home. a comfortable, at ease, relaxed, cosy, composed, tranquil, placid, peaceful, serene, untroubled: The Harrises certainly do make one feel at home. b in, accessible, available, welcoming: You know that we are always at home to you, Frances. 5 at home with or in. comfortable with, conversant with, knowledgeable in or about, familiar with, well-versed in, competent in, expert in, proficient in, skilled in, up on, current in, adept in, adroit in, qualified in, (well-)informed in or on or about: Widely read, she is at home in almost any subject you can name. --adj. 6 domestic, native, national, internal: Buying more foreign than home goods upsets the balance of trade. 7 domestic, household: She now sells home appliances for a big manufacturer. 8 family, domestic: What kind of home life has he had? --adv. 9 homeward(s): When will you come home? 10 to the heart or core, to the quick; effectively, tellingly, profoundly, deeply, stingingly, cuttingly, harshly, severely, Colloq where it hurts, where one lives: That remark really hit home. 11 bring or drive home. stress, emphasize, impress upon, make clear: I am trying to bring home to you the hardships people suffered during the war.
HOOK|0|n. 1 hanger, peg, holder; fastener, catch, clasp, clip, pin: Hang your hat on that hook. I'm using a safety pin because the hook on my dress is gone. 2 snare, trap; fish-hook: What can we use as a hook to catch the fish? 3 by hook or by crook. somehow (or other), someway, come what may, by fair means or foul, (by) one way or another: I have to get out of this place by hook or by crook. 4 hook, line, and sinker. completely, entirely, all the way, through and through, thoroughly, entirely, totally, utterly, wholly: She actually fell for that old routine hook, line, and sinker. 5 off the hook. (set) free, (in the) clear, out of it; out of trouble, acquitted, exonerated, cleared, let off, vindicated, off: After paying them the extortion money, he still wasn't off the hook. --v. 6 catch, trap, entrap, snare, ensnare; grab, capture, collar, nab, seize; Chiefly US and Canadian snag, Colloq pinch: The petty crooks have been caught but we now want to hook the big fish himself. 7 steal, pilfer, filch, palm, shoplift, rob, Slang snitch, rip off, Euphemistic liberate, remove, borrow, appropriate, Brit nick, Chiefly Brit pinch: They used to hook sweets from Woolies'.
HOPE|0|n. 1 desire, wish, expectation, yearning, hankering, craving, longing, fancy; ambition, (day)dream: It was always my hope that you would go to university. 2 prospect, promise, expectation, expectancy, confidence, anticipation, assumption, security, faith, conviction, belief, trust: We had given up hope of being rescued. --v. 3 aspire, count or rely on or upon, anticipate, contemplate, foresee, look forward to, expect, await, wait: After all these years, he is still hoping to meet the girl of his dreams. 4 trust; wish, want, desire; Dialect expect: I hope my ship will come in soon. I hope to see the last of her tomorrow.
HOST|0|n. 1 hostess, innkeeper, hotelier, hotel-keeper, hotelman, landlord or landlady, manager or manageress, proprietor or proprietress, Brit publican: As host, it is my responsibility to greet the guests. 2 entertainer, master or mistress of ceremonies, emcee, MC, announcer, Brit presenter, compëre, US tummler: For twenty years he has been the host of popular TV quiz shows. --v. 3 entertain, act or play the host or hostess, have: She hosts a dinner-party for close friends every Wednesday.
HOWL|0|v. 1 yowl, cry, wail, ululate, bay; shout, yell, bellow, scream, roar, Colloq holler: The wolves were howling at the moon last night. He howled with pain when he caught his finger in the door. --n. 2 yowl, yowling, ululation, ululating, wail, wailing, yelp, yelping, cry; shout, yell, bellow, scream, roar, Colloq holler: The wolf's howl is an eerie, chilling sound. I kicked him and he let out a howl.
HUFF|0|n. 1 in a huff. piqued, peeved, testy, irritated, angered, vexed, annoyed, in high dudgeon, provoked, exasperated, petulant, in a pet, Colloq (all) het up: She went off in a huff because I didn't praise her painting. --v. 2 puff, blow, bluster: When I complained about the food, the manager simply huffed and puffed and walked away.
HUGE|0|adj. large, great, enormous, gigantic, giant, immense, massive, tremendous, gargantuan, prodigious, mammoth, colossal, monumental, Brobdingnagian, titanic, stupendous, elephantine, leviathan, mountainous, vast, Colloq jumbo, whopping: The red spot on Jupiter is so huge it could swallow the earth several times over.
HULK|0|n. 1 shipwreck, wreck, derelict, shell, skeleton: The rusting hulk of the once-proud ship is tied up at the dock. 2 oaf, clod, lout, ox, Slang US galoot or galloot, klutz: Don't tell me that hulk of a man painted these delicate miniatures!
HULL|0|n. 1 framework, skeleton, frame, structure, body: The hull of the ship completed, we added the superstructure. 2 shell, pod, case, husk, skin, peel, rind, US shuck: Squirrels carefully nibble through the hull of the nut to get at the kernel inside. --v. 3 shell, peel, skin, husk, US shuck: We hulled all the nuts and they are now ready for the fruit cake.
HUMP|0|n. 1 bulge, lump, bump, protuberance, protrusion, projection, knob, node, mass, hunch, enlargement, swelling, growth, excrescence, tumefaction, tumescence; mound, barrow, tell, hummock, hillock, tumulus, Brit dialect tump: Digging into the hump near the trees, we uncovered an ancient burial-ground. --v. 2 hunch, arch, curve, crook, bend: Sulking in the corner, he humped his back and refused to speak to anyone. 3 drag, lug, haul, carry, heave: She had to hump two heavy suitcases all the way from the railway station.
HUNT|0|v. 1 chase, pursue, dog, hound, stalk, trail, track (down), trace; course: The jewel thieves were hunted across three continents. 2 Also, hunt for or up or out or through. seek (out), search (for), go in search of or for, look (high and low) for, quest after, go in quest of, scour, ransack, investigate, pry into, go over or through with a fine-tooth comb, examine, explore, Colloq US check out: Detectives hunted the carpet for clues. She is hunting a job in publishing. I have hunted for the ring but cannot find it. Can you hunt up someone to fill the vacancy? Hunt through your pockets again for the key. --n. 3 chase, pursuit, tracking (down), stalking, hunting; course: The ten-year hunt for the thieves continues. 4 search, quest: My hunt ended when I found the ring.
HURL|0|v. throw, toss, shy, sling, fling, pitch, cast, send, fire, heave, propel, let fly, Colloq chuck: The fast bowler hurled the ball past the batsman.
HURT|0|v. 1 harm, injure, wound; damage, impair, mar, spoil, vitiate, ruin: She's so gentle she wouldn't hurt a fly. The scandal hurt the candidate's chances of election. 2 ache, smart, pain, pinch, sting, burn, torment, gripe: My elbow really hurts where I hit it. 3 distress, grieve, affect, afflict, aggrieve, depress, upset, disappoint, pain, cut to the quick, affront, offend: Sticks and stones may break my bones but names will never hurt me. You always hurt the one you love. 4 injure, maim, wound, cripple, lame, disable, incapacitate, damage, mutilate, mangle: Three people have been badly hurt in a car crash on the motorway. --n. 5 harm, injury, damage, detriment, disadvantage: How much more hurt can you cause beyond what you have done already? 6 ache, pain, pang, distress, discomfort, suffering, torment, torture, agony; anguish, misery, woe, dolour, sadness, depression: If you rub on this ointment, the hurt will go away. You cannot imagine the hurt we felt when he failed his examinations. --adj. 7 injured, wronged, pained, rueful, grieved, unhappy, aggrieved, sad, wretched, woebegone, sorrowful, mournful, depressed, dejected, dismal, gloomy, melancholy: Whenever I mention getting a job she gets that hurt expression on her face. 8 damaged, defective, marred, impaired, broken, worn, dilapidated, shop-worn, scratched, bruised, scarred: They are holding a sale of hurt merchandise at the warehouse tomorrow.
HUSH|0|interj. 1 Shush!, Quiet!, Be or Keep quiet or silent or still!, Hold your tongue!, Mum's the word!, Slang Shut up!, Clam up!, Shut your trap!, Button your lip!, Shut your gob!, Brit Belt up!, US Hush up!, Shut your face!, US dialect Hush your mouth!: Hush! You're in a library. --v. 2 shush, silence, still, quiet: I wish she'd hush the child's wailing. 3 suppress, mute, soften, soft-pedal, whisper: They spoke in hushed tones. 4 Usually, hush up. suppress, repress, quash, cover up, hide, conceal, keep quiet, Colloq squelch: They tried to hush up the news about his extramarital affairs. 5 soothe, allay, calm, quiet, mollify, pacify, placate, tranquillize: Our worst fears were hushed by father's comforting words. --n. 6 silence, quiet, stillness, peace, tranquillity: A hush came over the crowd as she rose to speak.
IDEA|0|n. 1 concept, conception, construct, thought, notion, plan, design, scheme, suggestion, recommendation: Is that your idea of a good singing voice? Peter has an excellent idea for increasing sales. 2 notion, fancy, impression, picture, (mental) image, concept, conception, perception, understanding, awareness, apprehension, inkling, suspicion, hint, suggestion, approximation, clue, intimation, guess, estimate, estimation, impression: I haven't the slightest idea what you are talking about. Can you give us any idea of the cause of the delay? 3 belief, opinion, sentiment, feeling, teaching(s), doctrine, tenet, principle, philosophy, view, viewpoint, outlook, notion, conviction, position, stance: Western and Eastern ideas differ as to the role of women in society. 4 aim, goal, purpose, objective, object, end, point, reason, raison d'étre: What was the idea of telling the teacher? The idea behind the scheme was to boost sales. The idea of the game is to capture your opponent's king. 5 hypothesis, theory, notion, dream, fantasy or phantasy: His invention is based on the idea of an anti-gravity device.
IDLE|0|adj. 1 unused, inactive, unoccupied, non-operative, stationary: The looms were idle for months. The devil finds work for idle hands. 2 unemployed, out of work, redundant, jobless, workless, Colloq at leisure, at liberty, between assignments, resting, US on the beach: Unable to find work, Gilbert has been idle for a year. 3 indolent, lazy, listless, lethargic, loafing, slothful, shiftless, lackadaisical, loitering, fain÷ant: Since winning the lottery, Crouch has become one of the idle rich. 4 bootless, fruitless, unproductive, abortive, unfruitful, pointless, vain, trifling, trivial, shallow, nugatory, superficial, insignificant, meaningless, senseless, unimportant, frivolous, worthless, useless, otiose, unavailing, futile: We were passing the time at the pub in idle chatter when Michael walked in. He had no factual information to offer, only idle speculation. --v. 5 Often, idle away. waste, fritter away, while away, kill: They idle away the hours lying by the swimming-pool. 6 laze (about), loiter, kill time, loaf, loll, lounge, take it easy, Brit potter or US putter about or away, mess about, fool away, fool around or about, Colloq Brit muck about, bugger about, US lallygag or lollygag, goof off or around, Military slang US gold-brick: Stop idling and get down to work.
IDLY|0|adv. 1 unproductively, lazily, indolently: She wanders about the shops, idly whiling away the hours. 2 offhandedly, unconsciously, mechanically, thoughtlessly, unthinkingly, obliviously, insensibly, indifferently: He sat quietly, his fingers idly drumming on the tabletop.
IDOL|0|n. 1 (graven) image, icon or ikon, effigy, fetish, tiki, symbol: Nebuchadnezzar's people worshipped golden idols. 2 hero or heroine, superstar, celebrity, luminary, matin÷e idol, favourite, pet, darling: When he was a lad his idol was Quatermain, from the Rider Haggard novels.
ITCH|0|v. 1 tickle, tingle, prickle: These mosquito bites itch terribly. 2 desire, crave, hanker, hunger, thirst, yearn, pine, wish, want, die: I am itching to get my hands on whoever told you that I was dead. --n. 3 tickle, tickling, tingle, tingling, prickle, prickling, irritation: My frustration is like having an itch I can't scratch. 4 desire, craving, hankering, hunger, thirst, yearning, longing, Colloq yen: I have a sudden itch to visit mother for the weekend.
ITEM|0|n. 1 detail, article, point, particular, matter, thing, element, component, ingredient: There's one item I'd like you to keep in mind. 2 piece, mention, notice, note, memorandum, memo, filler, jotting: We often publish short items to fill out a column.
JADE|0|n. 1 nag, hack, Slang Brit screw, US plug: That old jade hasn't won a race in his last ten times out. 2 shrew, harridan, nag, hag, drab, witch, crone, hussy, minx, vixen, virago, termagant, beldam, slut, slattern, trull, trollop, baggage, tart, Slang battle-axe, broad, bitch, old bag, floozie or floozy or floosie: He was married to an expensive jade of a wife.
JAIL|0|n. 1 Brit gaol, prison, lock-up, reformatory, Brit Borstal, US penitentiary, reform school, Nautical brig, Slang cooler, clink, can, jug, stir, slammer, Brit nick, quod, choky or chokey, US calaboose, big house, pen, coop, hoosegow, pokey: They were sent to jail for life. --v. 2 imprison, lock up, incarcerate, detain, confine, Brit send down, US send up (the river): He was jailed for 30 days.
JEER|0|v. 1 Often, jeer at. mock, laugh or scoff or sneer (at), flout, deride, ridicule, make fun of, thumb one's nose at, gibe or jibe, chaff, decry, twit, taunt, Colloq rag, bullyrag, roast, Brit cock a snook at, Brit and Australian barrack, Slang knock: Don't jeer at aromatherapy till you've tried it. --n. 2 taunt, gibe or jibe, aspersion, hoot, hiss, boo, catcall; derision, ridicule, obloquy: Just because he was fat, Christopher had to suffer the jeers of his classmates.
JOIN|0|v. 1 unite, connect, couple, link, marry, yoke, combine, fasten or tie or glue or weld or solder (together), unify: These two pieces should be joined for greater strength. 2 ally or league with, associate (oneself) with, team up with, throw (one's lot) in with, enlist (in), sign (up) (with), enrol (in), enter: She was invited to join the bridge club. 3 go or be with, associate with, accompany, attach (oneself) to, participate with: Would you care to join us for a game of bridge? 4 border (on or upon), meet, touch, abut, butt, adjoin, be adjacent (to), extend to, verge on, coincide (with), juxtapose, be contiguous or conterminous (with), be coextensive (with): The two properties join at the top of the ridge.
JUST|0|adj. 1 fair, equitable, impartial, unbiased, unprejudiced, reasonable, fair-minded, even-handed, neutral, objective: Do you think you can expect a just trial after all that publicity? 2 upright, righteous, right-minded, honourable, honest, ethical, moral, principled, straight, decent, good, upstanding, virtuous, lawful: In our system of law, one must believe that juries are basically just. 3 justified, justifiable, well-founded, well-grounded, legitimate, valid, reasonable, rightful, (well-)deserved, due, fitting, proper; condign: She has a just claim to her father's estate. His punishment was just. --adv. 4 only, merely, nothing but, solely, simply, at best, at most, no more than: She said just that and nothing else. 5 exactly, precisely, perfectly; barely, only just, hardly, scarcely, by a hair's breadth, Colloq by the skin of one's teeth: My new car just fits into the garage, with only inches to spare. 6 (only or just) now, a moment ago, (very) recently, lately: We have just returned from a holiday in Tenerife.
KEEN|0|adj. 1 enthusiastic, avid, zealous, devoted, ardent, fervent, fervid, earnest, impassioned, passionate, intense, active; agog, eager, itching, anxious: They are keen fans of TV soap operas. I was keen to go swimming. 2 sharp, sharpened, razor-sharp, razor-like, knife-edged; trenchant, incisive, cutting, rapier-like, pointed, mordant, acid, vitriolic, acerbic, astringent, biting, acrid, acrimonious, stinging, scorching, caustic, searing, withering, virulent, pungent, sarcastic, sardonic: This axe is very keen, so be careful. With his keen wit, the playwright answered his severest critics. His play is a keen satire on the government. 3 painful, bitter, acute, poignant, fierce, grievous, severe, distressing, distressful, strong, deep, profound, intense, extreme, heartfelt: She felt keen resentment at the way she had been treated. 4 vivid, detailed, specific, unmistaken, unmistakable or unmistakeable, distinct: He has a keen recollection of seeing the suspect on the bus. 5 sharp, acute, sensitive, penetrating, discriminating, fine: The bloodhound has an extremely keen sense of smell. 6 intelligent, sharp, acute, perceptive, perspicacious, percipient, sensitive, discerning, astute, smart, bright, discriminating, discriminative, quick(-witted), shrewd, clever, canny, cunning, crafty, wise: Philip has a keen understanding of what is required of him. 7 keen on or about. fond of, enamoured of, devoted to, interested in: Alan is almost as keen on Mary as on his stamp collection.
KEEP|0|v. 1 retain, hold, hang on to, preserve, conserve, have, save, maintain, control: The difficulty is not in making money but in keeping it. 2 hold, have, take care or charge of, mind, tend, care for, look after, guard, keep an eye on, watch over, protect, safeguard; maintain, feed, nourish, victual, board, nurture, provide for, provision: Would you keep this parcel for me until I return? They keep chickens and ducks. 3 accumulate, save (up), amass, hoard (up), husband, retain, preserve, put or stow away: My brother has kept all the toys he ever had. 4 maintain, store, preserve: I keep woollen things in a cedar chest. 5 Often, keep on or at. continue, carry on, persist (in), persevere (in); prolong, sustain: How did you keep going after Elsa's death? She kept at it all night long. Keep on working till I tell you to stop. 6 keep to, abide by, follow, obey, mind, adhere to, attend to, pay attention to, heed, regard, observe, respect, acknowledge, defer to, accede (to), agree (to): Only a stickler would keep the letter of such a law. 7 stay, remain: Keep off the grass. Keep to the left. 8 support, finance, provide for, subsidize, maintain: He kept a mistress in Chelsea. 9 confine, detain; imprison, incarcerate, jail or Brit also gaol: The police have kept him overnight. 10 celebrate, observe, solemnize, memorialize, commemorate: We always kept Easter at my mother's house in the country. 11 last, be preserved, survive, stand up, stay fresh: Eggs keep longer in the refrigerator. 12 harbour, maintain, safeguard, keep dark: Can you keep a secret? 13 keep from. prevent, keep or hold back, restrain, (hold in) check, restrict, prohibit, forbid, inhibit, disallow, block, obstruct, deny, curb, deter, discourage: How can I keep my plants from dying while I'm away? 14 keep in. a keep or hold back, repress, suppress, stifle, smother, muzzle, bottle up, withhold, conceal, hide, shroud, mask, camouflage: She keeps in her true feelings. He could hardly keep in the tears. b confine, shu...
KICK|0|v. 1 boot, punt: The basic aim in soccer is to kick the ball into the back of the net. 2 recoil, backlash, rebound: The shotgun kicked when I fired it. --n. 3 punt, drop-kick: His kick sent the ball down the field. 4 recoil, backlash, rebound: That gun has quite a kick!
KILL|0|v. 1 execute, slay, murder, assassinate, do away with, put to death, cause the death of, liquidate, dispatch or despatch, take (someone's) life, finish (off), put an end to, write 'finis' to, silence, kill off, administer the coup de grçce, eliminate, put (someone) out of (his or her) misery, exterminate, extinguish, obliterate, eradicate, destroy, annihilate, massacre, slaughter, decimate, butcher, (of animals) put down, put to sleep, Slang do in, bump or knock off, hit, polish off, snuff (out), take for a ride, US waste, rub out, ice, fit with concrete overshoes or a wooden kimono: He was the third police officer to be killed this year. 2 destroy, ruin, devastate, ravage, wreak or work havoc (up)on, kill off: The entire orange crop was killed by the sudden frost. 3 muffle, neutralize, deaden, damp, silence, nullify, dull, absorb, smother, stifle, suppress, still: This padding should kill the noise of the motor. 4 exhaust, tire (out), fatigue, weary, Colloq fag (out): Pushing that mower all day nearly killed me. 5 hurt, pain, torment, torture: These shoes are killing me. 6 quash, suppress, defeat, veto, cancel: The tobacco interests campaigned to kill the bill to ban smoking in public places. 7 consume, use up, spend, while away, occupy, fill, pass, idle: While waiting, I killed time doing a crossword puzzle. --n. 8 game, prey; quarry: The lioness allowed her cubs to eat part of the kill. 9 death, killing, end, finish, deathblow, coup de grçce; termination, denouement or d÷nouement, conclusion: She wants to be in at the kill.
KIND|0|adj. friendly, kindly, nice, congenial, affable, approachable, amiable, obliging, accommodating, amicable, well-disposed, courteous, good, good-natured, benevolent, well-meaning, well-wishing, thoughtful, well-intentioned, generous, big-hearted, humanitarian, charitable, philanthropic, gentle, understanding, sympathetic, considerate, lenient, tolerant, indulgent, compassionate, kind-hearted, gracious, warm, warm-hearted, cordial, tender-hearted, affectionate: It was kind of you to stop and help us. I never thought of him as a kind man.
KING|0|n. prince, crowned head, majesty, sovereign, monarch, ruler, regent, Colloq Brit royal: In former times, the king had power of life and death over his subjects.
KISS|0|v. 1 osculate, peck, Colloq smack, smooch, neck, Old-fashioned spoon, canoodle: I kissed her on the cheek. A young couple were kissing on the park bench. 2 touch, brush, graze: The cue-ball barely kissed the black, toppling it into the pocket. 3 kiss goodbye. bid adieu, say farewell to, give up, relinquish, abandon, forsake, desert, renounce, repudiate, forget (about), dismiss, disregard, ignore: With those marks, you can kiss goodbye to any thought of winning a scholarship. --n. 4 osculation, peck, Colloq smack, smooch, US and Canadian buss, Slang Brit smacker: He ran over and gave me a big hug and a kiss.
KNIT|0|v. 1 join or fasten or weave (together), interweave, interlace, interconnect, intertwine, link, bind, unite, tie (up or together), consolidate, combine, compact: He was the first king to succeed in knitting together the diverse elements of the empire. 2 grow (together), heal, mend, join: The broken bones will knit in about a month. 3 furrow, contract, wrinkle, knot, crease: He knit his brow and sighed.
KNOB|0|n. boss, stud, protuberance, projection, protrusion, handle: Turn the knob, then pull the drawer open.
KNOT|0|n. 1 snarl, gnarl, tangle; tie, bond: I cannot loosen this knot. 2 collection, assemblage, aggregation, congregation, crowd, cluster, bunch, gathering, company, band, gang, crowd, throng: A small knot of people were standing in front of my painting. --v. 3 fasten, tie, bind, secure, lash, tether, affix, fix, attach: I knotted the rope around his neck.
KNOW|0|v. 1 understand, comprehend, be familiar with, grasp, be acquainted with, be versed or skilled in: Do you know anything about nuclear physics? I know Italian fairly well. She knows how to dance the tango. 2 recognize, identify, recall, remember, recollect: I know him from somewhere. 3 be sure or certain or positive: I knew I was right! I just know I'm going to win the first prize. 4 distinguish, separate, discern, differentiate, recognize, identify: Charles doesn't know right from wrong. 5 be aware or conscious or cognizant of, be informed or advised of, have knowledge of: He knows that he cannot fire her because she knows too much.
LACE|0|n. 1 lace-work, tatting, openwork, filigree, mesh, web, webbing, net, netting, network: She wore a collar of handmade lace. 2 shoelace, shoestring, bootlace, cord, string, thong, tie, lacing: They made me remove my belt, tie, and laces before locking me in a cell. --v. 3 thread, weave, string, twine, interweave, intertwine: First lace the cord through the eyelets, then draw it tight. 4 spike, fortify, strengthen: I saw her lace my punch with vodka, so I didn't drink it. 5 lace into. a attack, assault, beat, assail, thrash, belabour, fall on or upon, set upon, pounce on or upon, lay into, Colloq light into: The brothers laced into one another with a fury. b berate, scold, revile, attack, upbraid, castigate, rant or rave at: She really laced into me for being an hour late for dinner.
LACK|0|n. 1 want, deficiency, dearth, absence, scarcity, shortage, need, insufficiency, paucity, deficit, inadequacy: We suffered from a severe lack of water. The orchestra is experiencing a serious lack of talent at the moment. --v. 2 want, need, require, be deficient in, be or fall short of, be without: He lacks the votes needed to win. Simon lacks the ability to paint any better.
LAIR|0|n. 1 den, burrow, hole, nest, tunnel, cave, hollow, covert: We cautiously approached the lair of the man-eating tiger. 2 hide-out, hideaway, retreat, hiding-place, refuge, asylum, sanctuary, Colloq hidey-hole or hidy-hole: Oliver will not emerge from his lair before tea-time.
LAME|0|adj. 1 crippled, disabled, handicapped, hobbled, limping, incapacitated, impaired, halting, halt, spavined, Colloq US gimpy: The mare was found to be lame after the previous day's hunting. 2 feeble, weak, flimsy, thin, unconvincing, unpersuasive, awkward, clumsy, poor, ineffective, Colloq half-baked: Refusing to go because you have a headache sounds like a pretty lame excuse to me.
LAND|0|n. 1 earth, (solid) ground, terra firma: After weeks in an open boat, Captain Bligh was relieved to have land under his feet again. 2 dirt, earth, soil, turf, sod, loam, mould: Trumble tilled the land as his ancestors had done for generations. 3 property, grounds, real property or realty or US and Canadian also real estate, acreage; estate: How much land goes with the house? 4 fatherland, motherland, nation, country, homeland, native land: The land of our fathers flowed with milk and honey. --v. 5 arrive, alight, light, touch or come or go down, splash down, settle on or upon, come to rest, berth, dock, disembark, debark, go ashore, deplane, dismount: The plane was forced to land on the water. We land at dawn. 6 catch, capture, take captive, Colloq bag: He was unable to land the shark unaided. 7 Colloq get, secure, obtain, win, acquire: He finally landed a job with his father-in-law. Sadie finally landed a millionaire!
LARK|0|n. 1 frolic, spree, escapade, caper, fling, romp, adventure, revel, jape, game, antic, horseplay, shenanigans, mischief, prank, practical joke: The boys say they took the horse just as a lark. --v. 2 Often, lark about. frolic, caper, romp, revel, play, sport, cavort, gambol, Colloq skylark: We spent a lot of time larking about after our exams.
LASH|0|n. 1 whip, scourge, cat-o'-nine-tails, cat, quirt, knout, bull-whip, thong; rope's end: The bosun gave him twenty of the best with his lash. 2 stroke, blow, strike, slash, cut: Few could stand up after five lashes with his whip. --v. 3 flog, beat, thrash, switch, whip, scourge, horsewhip, lambaste, flail, smite, thwack, Colloq whack: Any boy was liable to be lashed for the most trivial misdemeanour. 4 lash out. attack, flay, lambaste, belabour, punish; criticize, berate, scold: She often lashes out at her critics quite virulently.
LASS|0|n. girl, young woman, miss, mademoiselle, schoolgirl, Old-fashioned maiden, maid, damsel, demoiselle; Scots lassie, Irish colleen: He has married a young lass from Arbroath.
LAST|0|adj. 1 hindmost, rearmost, aftermost; final: I was the last person to board the plane. 2 latest, newest, most recent or up to date: What was the subject of his last novel? During the last week I have seen seven films. 3 final, concluding, terminal, ultimate, terminating: The last train to London leaves at eleven. She was the last speaker of Cornish. 4 definitive, conclusive, decisive, closing: That is my last word on the subject. --adv. 5 behind, at or in the end, in or at the rear, after: My horse always seems to come in last. --n. 6 end, termination, finish: That was the last we ever saw of Charlie. 7 at last. finally, eventually, ultimately, at length: At last we shall see the results of our work. n. mould, matrix, form, model, pattern: These shoes were not made on the same last as those.
LATE|0|adj. 1 tardy, delayed, overdue, behindhand, dilatory, unpunctual; belated, US past due: He was even late for his own wedding. Better late than never. Your mortgage payment is late again. 2 recent, last, new, fresh, current, up to date: Have you got a copy of a late edition of today's newspaper? 3 deceased, departed, dead; former, past, ex-, recent, previous, preceding, old (See also 5., below.): Here is a song by the late, great Bing Crosby. He has a meeting with Lord Pamby, late chairman of United Oxidation. 4 of late. See 5., below. --adv. 5 recently, lately, previously, formerly, once, heretofore, in recent or former time(s), of late, latterly (See also 3., above.): They are dining tonight with Sir Keith, late of Scotland Yard. 6 till or at an advanced hour or time: I was up late last night. She married late. 7 tardily, unpunctually, belatedly: We arrived too late for the first act. 8 recently, lately: As late as a week ago they were still holding the job open for her.
LAUD|0|v. praise, commend, celebrate, sing or speak or sound the praises of, honour, acclaim, extol, glorify, promote, advance, recommend, exalt: Bramble's paintings have been lauded by leading art critics the world over.
LAWN|0|n. sward, greensward, turf, sod, green: I lay back on the lawn and gazed at the sky.
LAZY|0|adj. 1 indolent, slothful, dilatory, idle, shiftless, inactive, listless, fain÷ant, otiose, slack, lax, lethargic: He's so lazy and so rich that he pays someone just to walk his dog. 2 slow, languid, easy, easygoing, sluggish, slow-moving, languorous: The hot lazy summer days were whiled away fishing.
LEAD|0|v. 1 conduct, escort, usher, guide, show the way, pilot, steer: If you lead, I'll follow. 2 cause, influence, prompt, bring, incline, induce, persuade, move, dispose, convince: What led you to suspect the butler? 3 head (up), direct, govern, command, supervise, superintend, preside (over), take the lead, take or assume command (of), manage, captain, Colloq skipper: The orchestra would like you to lead. Who is going to lead the men into battle? Nicole leads a weekly discussion group on alcoholism. 4 come or be or go first, excel, surpass, exceed, precede, be ahead (of), outstrip, distance, outrun, outdo: They lead the world in the production of sugar. 5 live, experience, spend, pass; while away: He is leading a life of ease on the French Riviera. 6 be conducive to, create, engender, cause, contribute to, result in, bring on or about, produce: Your stubbornness can lead only to frustration. 7 lead astray. lead on, mislead, misguide, misdirect, deceive; fool, decoy, hoodwink, Colloq bamboozle: She might have been led astray by that wolf in sheep's clothing. 8 lead off. start (off or in or out or up), begin, commence, get going or moving, get under way, initiate, inaugurate, Colloq kick off: The proceedings will lead off with the national anthem. Who is going to lead off the singing? 9 lead on. a See 7, above. b lure, entice, seduce, beguile, inveigle, tempt: They led me on with offers of a huge salary. 10 lead up to. a prepare or pave or clear (the way), do the groundwork or spadework, precede: The events leading up to the overthrow of the government may never be known. b approach, broach, bring up, present, introduce, work up or round or around to, get (up) to: I should lead up to the subject delicately, if I were you. --n. 11 front, vanguard, van, lead or leading position or place, advance or advanced position or place: The horse that he had bet on was in the lead coming down the home straight. 12 advantage, edge, advance, supremacy, margin, priority, primacy, pre-em...
LEAK|0|n. 1 leakage, leaking, discharge, trickle, escape, seepage, seeping, oozing, exudation: We have to stop leaks of radioactive waste from power plants. 2 hole, fissure, crack, chink, crevice, aperture, opening, puncture, cut, break, split, gash, rent, tear, gap, flaw: There was a leak in the balloon and it began to descend. 3 disclosure, revelation: The press knew about his defection because of a security leak. --v. 4 escape, discharge, spill, trickle, drip, seep, ooze, exude, extravasate: Oil was leaking out through a hole in the container. 5 disclose, divulge, let slip, release, give away (the game), make known or public, let (something or it) be known, Colloq spill the beans (about); let the cat out of the bag: Someone as yet unidentified leaked the scandal to a reporter. 6 leak out. transpire, become known, come out, be revealed: Their secret relationship has leaked out.
LEAN|0|adj. 1 thin, slim, slender, rangy, spare, wiry, lanky, lank, skinny, angular, bony, raw-boned, gaunt, gangling, gangly, spare, meagre, skeletal, scraggy, scrawny, haggard, emaciated, pinched, wasted, shrunken, macilent: He has the lean leggy build typical of a runner. 2 unfruitful, unproductive, barren, infertile, poor, meagre, scanty, bare, arid, sparse, impoverished: The Kanes tried for years to eke a living from the lean soil. 3 impoverished, destitute, needy, poverty-stricken, penurious, indigent, necessitous, hard, bad, difficult: The Depression was a lean period for most people.
LEAP|0|n. 1 spring, bound, jump, vault (into); hurdle, clear, hop over, skip over, negotiate: He leapt into the saddle. Superman leaps tall buildings at a single bound. 2 jump, cavort, gambol, dance, frisk, caper, frolic, romp, prance, curvet: He leapt for joy at the news that he had won first prize. 3 jump, rush, hasten, form hastily, accept (prematurely or without question): The speaker kept leaping from one subject to another. Don't leap to conclusions about her strange behaviour. 4 leap at. jump at, accept, be eager for, move quickly, take: I leapt at the chance to apply for a scholarship. --n. 5 spring, bound, jump, vault, hurdle, hop, skip: With one leap I was on the other side. 6 jump, increase, (up)surge, rise, upswing, growth, escalation: The figures show a leap in inflation for the month. 7 by leaps and bounds. rapidly, quickly, swiftly, speedily: The plans for the new theatre are progressing by leaps and bounds.
LEER|0|v. 1 ogle, eye: He leers at every pretty girl. --n. 2 ogle, the eye, Colloq once-over, Slang glad eye: She was repelled when he gave her a leer.
LEFT|0|adj. 1 left-hand, sinistral, Nautical port, (formerly) larboard, Heraldry sinister: In most countries, the driver sits on the left side. 2 leftist, left-wing, progressive, liberal, socialist(ic), pink; radical, communist(ic), red: The party's platform has become a bit too left for my taste. --n. 3 left side or hand or fist, Nautical port, port side, (formerly) larboard: The fort is on the left as you enter the bay. The champion has a powerful left.
LEND|0|v. 1 make a loan of, loan, advance: The bank agreed to lend me the money for a boat. 2 impart, furnish, bestow, give, confer, contribute, add: The silk scarf lends cachet to the whole outfit. 3 lend itself to. suit, fit, be fitted or appropriate or suitable (to or for), be applicable or adaptable (to or for): The book lends itself well to film adaptation.
LEWD|0|adj. lascivious, salacious, lecherous, lustful, licentious, carnal, goatish, hircine, satyric(al), ruttish, concupiscent, libidinous, lubricious or lubricous, indecent, offensive, wild, debauched, obscene, smutty, crude, dirty, foul, filthy, rude, pornographic, prurient, gross, dissolute, Fescennine, bawdy, ribald, scurrilous, raw, blue, erotic, suggestive, unchaste, unvirtuous, Colloq randy, Slang hot, horny: He is said to have chronicled the lewd goings-on at the Hellfire Club.
LIAR|0|n. fabricator, prevaricator, perjurer, falsifier, teller of tales, false witness, Ananias, Baron von Mânchhausen, Colloq fibber: He's a liar if he says he saw me that night - I was ill in bed.
LIFE|0|n. 1 existence, entity, being; sentience, viability: Who can imagine the possible forms of life in the universe? 2 existence, survival, living, subsistence, sustenance: Certain nutriments are necessary to life on earth. 3 existence, living, way of life, lifestyle: What kind of life does he lead? I enjoy country life. 4 existence, lifetime, time; duration: She did much during her short life. The life of a light-bulb depends on how often it is switched off and on. 5 person, mortal, human (being), individual, soul: The new drug might save millions of lives. 6 biography, autobiography, memoir(s), (life) story: He has written a life of Mozart. 7 soul, spirit, spark of life, vital spark, moving spirit, life-force, ÷lan vital; lifeblood; animation, vitality, liveliness, sprightliness, vivacity, sparkle, dazzle, dash, ÷lan, vigour, verve, zest, flavour, pungency, freshness, effervescence, brio, flair, vim, energy, exuberance, enthusiasm, Colloq pep, zing, get-up-and-go: We must breathe some life into these people. Eva is always the life of the party. 8 obsession, preoccupation, passion, fixation, compulsion: Model railways are his life. 9 bounce, resilience, spring, elasticity: There's no life in this old tennis ball.
LIFT|0|v. 1 raise, elevate; hoist, heave (up): She lifted her eyes to the heavens. The pallbearers lifted the coffin to their shoulders. 2 Often, lift up. exalt, raise, elevate, uplift, boost, upgrade, promote, advance; improve, ameliorate, better, dignify, enhance, ennoble, enshrine, deify, immortalize: His unusual talents lifted him up from the ranks of ordinary mortals. 3 discontinue, end, terminate, stop: The siege was lifted after six months. 4 withdraw, cancel, confiscate, take away, rescind, void, annul: They charged him with driving while intoxicated and lifted his licence. 5 rise, disappear, dissipate, vanish: When the fog lifted, I saw that we were about to run aground. 6 steal, appropriate, pilfer, pocket, thieve, take, purloin; plagiarize, copy, Colloq pinch, crib, liberate, Slang Brit nick, Old-fashioned half-inch: He went into the supermarket and lifted a bottle of scotch. This passage was lifted from my book in its entirety. --n. 7 ride: She looked tired so I gave her a lift home. 8 US and Canadian elevator: Take the lift to the tenth floor. 9 encouragement, boost, stimulus, inducement, inspiration, reassurance, cheering up, Colloq shot in the arm: Winning first prize has given Susan the lift she needed to continue with her writing.
LIKE|0|adj., adv. 1 similar (to), akin (to), allied (to), parallel (to or with), comparable (to or with), equivalent (to), equal (to), identical (to), cognate (with), analogous (to), corresponding (to), correspondent (to), close (to), homologous (to or with), of a piece (with), (much) the same (as), along the same lines (as), not unlike: We hold like opinions. Her opinions are like mine. Her pies are like the ones my mother used to bake. Problems like this give me a headache. Opposite charges attract, like charges repel. 2 in the mood for, disposed to: Do you feel like a walk in the park? He felt like going with me. --adv. 3 as if, as though: He ran like mad. --prep. 4 similar to, identical to or with: Her daughter looks like her. He makes her feel like a perfect fool. 5 in the same way as, in the manner of, similarly to: Sometimes she acts like a maniac. The jacket fits him like a glove. He laughed like a drain. He treats his mother like a child. 6 such as, for example, for instance, e.g., that is (to say), i.e., in other words, namely, to wit, viz.: Mistletoe grows on various trees, like oaks and birches. --n. 7 match, equal, peer, fellow, opposite number, counterpart, twin: It is doubtful that we shall see his like again. 8 same or similar kind or sort or ilk or type or kidney or breed or mould or cast or strain: The book deals with music, literature, theatre, painting, and the like.
LIMP|0|v. 1 hobble, stagger, totter, dodder, falter: He limped slowly along the road. --n. 2 hobble, hobbling, stagger, staggering, totter, tottering, dodder, doddering, falter, faltering, claudication, Slang US gimp: He was easy to recognize at a distance because of his limp.
LINE|0|n. 1 mark, pencil-mark, pen-mark, rule, score; stroke, underline, underscore; diagonal, slash, virgule, shilling-mark, solidus, separatrix, oblique: The lines on this paper are very faint. Draw a red line under your name. A line separates the numerator from the denominator. 2 strip, belt, stripe, band, border, edge, edging: Do you see that line of trees? Put a heavy black line round the obituary notices. 3 wrinkle, crease, crinkle, furrow, crow's-foot: He has many lines on his face. The palmist said I have a long lifeline. 4 border, borderline, frontier, limit, boundary; demarcation, threshold: We crossed the line into Italy. I don't mind cooking dinner, but I draw the line at washing the dishes. There is a fine line between genius and insanity. 5 outline, silhouette, contour, figure, profile: The line of the skirt is too straight. 6 row, rank, column, file, train, parade, cortege or cortëge, procession, Brit queue, Colloq Brit crocodile, tailback: I stood in line for six hours for tickets. The line wound all the way round the block. 7 field, area, activity, forte, speciality or chiefly US and Canadian also specialty, specialization, business, profession, occupation, (line of) work, job, vocation, pursuit, trade, calling, employment, Colloq racket, game: Saying that he was a computer programmer, he asked me my line. 8 note, word, card, postcard, letter, US postal card: Drop me a line when you get there. 9 course, direction, path, way, route, road, track, procedure, tack, policy, strategy, tactic(s), approach, plan: What line will our competitors take to win the account? I adopted the line of least resistance. 10 information, data, word, lead, clue, hint: Interpol is trying to get a line on where he might be found. 11 cord, string, thread, twine, yarn, strand, filament, rope, cable, hawser: The anchor line became entangled. Hang the clothes out on the line. 12 track, railway or US and Canadian also railroad: The accident on the southern line is delaying all the trai...
LINK|0|n. 1 tie, bond, coupling, connector, vinculum; element, constituent, component: A chain is no stronger than its weakest link. 2 connection, tie-up, tie-in, relation, relationship, association, affiliation, interdependence: What is the link between her arrival and his sudden departure? He thinks he's identified the missing link. --v. 3 Often, link up. couple, join, fasten (together), unite; concatenate: They linked arms to form a barrier. 4 connect, tie (up or in or together), associate, relate, identify with: I cannot help feeling that this murder links up with the others.
LIST|0|n. 1 listing, roster, roll, rota, catalogue, directory, register, index, record, schedule, muster, slate, beadroll, laundry list, shopping list, inventory, file, tabulation; bibliography, liber veritatis, catalogue raisonn÷: Select what you need from this list. --v. 2 catalogue, register, index, record, note, itemize, enumerate, schedule, tabulate, chronicle, book, enter, enrol: Those eligible to vote are listed in this computer printout.
LIVE|0|adj. 1 living, breathing, animate, viable, existent; material, physical, tangible, real, actual, palpable: She said she'd rather be a live beggar than a dead countess. My cat brought me a live mouse into the house the other day. 2 energetic, lively, spirited, vigorous, active, dynamic, busy; current, contemporary: Our new advertising agency seems to have some live ideas. The other party made nuclear disarmament a live issue in the election. 3 burning, glowing, flaming, alight, red-hot, white-hot: A live coal popped out of the grate onto the carpet. 4 loaded, explosive, unexploded, combustible: Builders have dug up a live bomb in London. 5 charged, electrified: Don't touch a live wire or you'll get a shock. --v. 6 breathe, exist; function: There has never lived a more gifted scholar. She lives as a recluse. 7 survive, persist, last, persevere, endure; spend, continue, live out, complete, end, conclude, finish: He lived out his days happily in Torquay. 8 reside, dwell, be; abide, stay, remain, lodge, room: He normally lives in Acton, but at the moment he's living with his mother in Kent. 9 subsist, get along, survive, fare: Many old-age pensioners complain that they have barely enough to live on.
LOAD|0|n. 1 weight, burden; onus, pressure, encumbrance, millstone, cross, albatross, responsibility, care, anxiety, worry, trouble: He put down his load and rested. Seeing her safe is a load off my mind. 2 shipment, consignment, cargo, weight: That load is too heavy for the van. --v. 3 pack, pile, stack, heap, fill, lade, stuff, cram, jam, squeeze: Load all the boxes you can in the truck. 4 Often, load down. weigh down, burden, encumber, saddle with, overwhelm: I was loaded down with too many responsibilities.
LOAF|0|n. 1 brick, cake, block, chunk; lump, cube: We could do with an extra loaf of bread. 2 head, sense, brains, Colloq noggin, noodle, block, bean, Brit noddle, Slang Brit chump: Use your loaf!
LOAN|0|n. 1 advance, allowance, credit, accommodation: We needed a loan to pay for Melissa's education. --v. 2 lend, advance, allow, credit: The bank loaned us enough money to buy a car.
LOCK|0|n. 1 padlock, hasp, bolt, latch, bar, hook, clasp, catch: Why put a lock on the door if there is nothing worth stealing inside? 2 hold; control, power, sway, authority, command, supervision: The bureau has a complete lock on the issue of licences. --v. 3 Often, lock up. padlock, bolt, latch, bar, secure, seal: Lock the doors before leaving for the day. 4 clasp, entangle, engage, join, entwine, close; clutch, grasp, grapple: For six hours the knights were locked in battle. 5 lock away. See lock up or away, below. 6 lock in. a secure, retain, fix, plant, implant, stabilize: What does the maker mean by 'the flavour is locked in'? b commit, oblige, constrain, bind: We are locked in to the promises we made to our employees. c lock up or away, confine, restrain, coop up: You'd better lock in the dogs before you leave. 7 lock on. fix on or upon, track, follow, pursue, keep track of: Our sights are locked on the target. 8 lock out. exclude, shut out, close out, keep out, bar, debar: During the strike, the management locked out all employees. 9 lock up or away. confine, jail or Brit also gaol, imprison, coop up, incarcerate, detain, impound, put behind bars, restrict, cage: They threatened to lock him up and throw away the key.
LONG|0|adj. 1 extensive, extended, elongate(d), large, great, big: That is a very long snake! 2 lengthy, prolonged, protracted; extensive, extended, sustained: I waited for a long time.
LOOK|0|v. 1 Usually, look at. see, observe, consider, contemplate, regard, view, survey, inspect, scrutinize, study, scan; pay attention, attend, notice, watch, witness; Literary behold, Slang US eyeball: Look at what you've done! Look at the way I do it. 2 seem (to be), appear (to be): That looks like a useful utensil. You certainly look healthy. 3 face, front (on), overlook, look out on: The house looks over the sea at the back. 4 look after. care for, take care of, be responsible for, attend, mind, watch, serve, wait on, nurse, protect: Rose will look after your house while you're away. I need someone to look after me. 5 look down on or upon or US at. disdain, despise, contemn, scorn, disparage, derogate, spurn, sneer, misprize, Colloq turn one's nose up at, look down one's nose at: They look down on anyone with less money. 6 look for. a seek, demand, require: We aren't looking for the same things in a person. b hunt for, forage for, search for: I am looking for a cup to match my set. c expect, hope, anticipate, count on, reckon on: I am looking for a better school report next term. 7 look forward to. a anticipate, await, wait for: I am looking forward to Sunday's match. b expect, count or rely on or upon: We were looking forward to your help. 8 look into. examine, study, investigate, inspect, delve into, dig into, probe, scrutinize, explore, go into, research, check (out), check into: I shall have to look into the matter. 9 look out. be careful, be alert, be vigilant, be on the qui vive, be watchful, watch out, beware, pay attention, be on guard: If you don't look out, you'll bang your head. 10 look over. look at, examine, read, scan, study, check (out or over), Slang US eyeball: I haven't had a chance to look over the material you gave me. 11 look up. a seek, search for, hunt for, try to find, track or run down: I meant to look up the etymology of 'picnic'. b get in touch with, (tele)phone, ring (up), visit, call on, call up, look or drop in on, go to see: I looked up...
LOOM|0|v. 1 appear, emerge, take shape or form, materialize, surface, arise: A huge figure loomed out of the fog. 2 menace, impend, threaten, overshadow, tower, dominate, hang or hover over: Count Dracula's dark castle loomed over us. 3 loom large. dominate, predominate, play a big or an important role or part: Sales to children loom large in your predictions.
LOOP|0|n. 1 hoop, noose, ring, circle, bow, eye, eyelet, coil, whorl, Nautical bend: I caught my toe in a loop of rope and fell on the deck. --v. 2 twist, coil, wind, tie, circle, curl, entwine, turn, ring, Nautical bend: Loop the thread round the crochet hook and pull it through.
LOOT|0|n. 1 booty, spoils, plunder, prize, haul, Slang swag, boodle: They divided up the loot amongst the gang. --v. 2 plunder, sack, ransack, rob, pillage, despoil, raid, ravage, maraud, Rare depredate: The soldiers looted every house in the city.
LORD|0|n. 1 master, monarch, ruler, sovereign: Harry considers himself lord of all he surveys. 2 noble, nobleman, peer, aristocrat; earl, duke, count, viscount, baron: He was made a lord in recognition of his achievements. 3 The or Our Lord. God, the Almighty, God Almighty, the Creator, the Supreme Being, Christ, Jesus, Jehovah: The Lord moves in mysterious ways his miracles to perform. --v. lord it over. domineer, swagger, be overbearing, Colloq boss (around), act big, pull rank: He lords it over everyone in the office.
LORE|0|n. 1 folklore, beliefs, culture, tradition(s), mythology, myths, mythos, ethos, teaching(s), doctrine, wisdom: According to their lore, the American Indians go to the Happy Hunting Ground when they die. 2 knowledge, learning, erudition: He was acquainted with medical lore through his reading.
LOSE|0|v. 1 mislay, misplace, displace, part with; suffer the loss of, be deprived of: I lost my pen. He lost a leg in the war. 2 forfeit, yield: He says he lost the rent money gambling. 3 give up, yield, capitulate, admit defeat, succumb, bow to, be defeated or conquered, suffer defeat, be beaten or overcome or worsted or bested, Colloq lose out: It was a good game, but we lost. 4 waste, let slip, squander, dissipate, fritter or trifle away, run out of; consume, use (up), expend, spend: We lost a lot of time waiting for him to decide. 5 elude, evade, escape, throw or shake off, give the slip: I managed to lose the sinister-looking man who was shadowing me.
LOSS|0|n. 1 deprivation, bereavement, privation, denial, sacrifice, forfeiture, disappearance: We must be constantly vigilant to watch for any loss of our liberty. 2 diminution, erosion, reduction, impoverishment, depletion, shrinkage: New policies are in place to stem the loss of parkland. 3 disadvantage, detriment, harm, impairment, injury, damage: I don't regard Wentworth's resignation as any great loss. 4 waste, wastage, wasting, squandering: The loss of time was owing to a train delay. 5 defeat, set-back, disadvantage, disappointment, failure, downfall, collapse, breakdown, ruin; drubbing, trouncing: His loss is my gain. 6 Often, losses. debit(s), liability (liabilities), negative cash flow: The company wrote off the losses. 7 Often, losses. death, dying, passing, demise, destruction, extermination, extinction, annihilation: The loss from disease was overwhelming. What losses did they suffer in the battle?
LOST|0|adj. 1 gone, departed, vanished, strayed; missing, mislaid, misplaced, irrecoverable: They found my lost dog. The airline told me that my bag was lost. 2 wasted, misspent, gone by the board, squandered, down the drain, spent, exhausted, Colloq out of the window: The new arrangement is resulting in a lot of time lost. I watched another lost opportunity slip by. 3 confused, baffled, perplexed, puzzled, mystified, bewildered, confounded, adrift, helpless, disoriented, at sea, astray: I am totally lost when it comes to high finance. 4 forgotten, bygone, extinct, past, obsolete, vanished, buried: Good writing needn't be a lost art. 5 dead, extinct, departed, fallen, late: We held a memorial service for our lost comrades. 6 destroyed, demolished, devastated, ruined, wrecked, irreparable, unsalvageable, irreclaimable, irremediable: After the expos÷ in the newspaper, his name was consigned to the limbo of lost reputations. 7 damned, cursed, accursed, abandoned, corrupt, fallen, wanton, unchaste, dissolute: Unrepentant sinners are lost souls. 8 hopeless, distraught, distracted, desperate, frantic, frenzied: He had the lost look of a cornered fugitive.
LOUD|0|adj. 1 deafening, ear-splitting, booming, blaring, stentorian, thundering, thunderous, sonorous, noisy, clamorous, piercing, fortissimo: The hi-fi is so loud I can't hear myself think. A loud crash came from the kitchen. 2 tawdry, garish, flashy, gaudy, tasteless, extravagant, showy, ostentatious, Colloq splashy, snazzy, jazzy: He was wearing a check suit and the loudest shirt and tie I had ever seen.
LOUR|0|v. 1 lower, darken, threaten, menace, loom: The clouds loured: she suddenly began to feel afraid. 2 lower, frown, scowl, glower; sulk, pout, mope: He said nothing, but loured at me from beneath his beetled brow.
LOVE|0|n. 1 warmth, affection, attachment, fondness, tenderness, devotion, attraction, friendship, amity, regard, admiration, fancy, adoration, adulation, ardour, passion, fervour, rapture, infatuation: Her love for him grew over the years. 2 liking, delight, enjoyment, pleasure, fondness, attraction, predilection, bent, leaning, proclivity, inclination, disposition, weakness, partiality, preference, taste, relish, passion: In his retirement, Charles has developed a love for golf. 3 darling, beloved, sweetheart, sweetie, sweet, honey, dear one, dearest, angel, turtle-dove, true-love, light of one's life, lover, paramour, mate, intended, betrothed; girlfriend, inamorata, lady-love, young lady, fianc÷e; boyfriend, beau, inamorato, suitor, swain, young man, fianc÷, Archaic leman, tally, US POSSLQ (= 'Person of the Opposite Sex Sharing Living Quarters'), Colloq girl, woman, guy, man: Let me tell you something, my love. Come live with me and be my love. 4 sympathy, tenderness, concern, charity, care, solicitude, affinity, rapport, harmony, brotherhood, sisterhood, fellow-feeling: He has great love for his fellow human beings. 5 love affair. a amour, liaison, affair, romance, relationship, affaire de coeur, intrigue: He's been having a love affair with his secretary. b passion, mania, Colloq thing: George allows nothing to interfere with his love affair with tennis. 6 make love (to) or (with). embrace, cuddle, caress, fondle, have sexual intercourse, Archaic take, know, Colloq neck, pet, canoodle, romance, have sex, make the beast with two backs, US and Canadian make out; Taboo slang screw, fuck, hump, bang, Brit roger, bonk: He still makes love to his wife even though they are both in their eighties. --v. 7 cherish, admire, adore, be in love with, lose one's heart to, worship, idolize, dote on, treasure, be infatuated with, think the world of, adulate, hold dear, like, Colloq be hung up on, be crazy or nuts or wild or mad about, have a crush on: Only after ten years of friend...
LUCK|0|n. 1 fortune, chance, destiny, fate, accident, fortuity, serendipity; fluke, stroke of luck, US happenstance: Luck brought us together. 2 good fortune, (good) break: It takes a lot of luck to get the kinds of roles you want as an actor. 3 chance(s), success rate, fortune(s): I hope that my luck improves soon.
LULL|0|n. 1 pause, respite, interlude, intermission, interval, break, hiatus, interruption, stop, halt, lapse, delay, Literary caesura, Colloq let-up: After a brief lull, the hurricane resumed in all its ferocity. 2 quiet, quiescence, hush, calm, calmness, stillness, silence, peace, peacefulness, tranquillity: There was a lull, then the noise of the artillery again shattered the night. --v. 3 soothe, calm, quiet, hush, pacify, mollify, tranquillize: Do not let her sweet words lull you into a sense of false security. I was lulled to sleep by the crickets and the bees.
LUMP|0|n. 1 mass, piece, gob, gobbet, clod, chunk, clot, wad, clump, hunk, nugget; cube, wedge, cake: There was a lump of earth was clogging the drain. May I have two lumps of sugar, please? 2 bump, growth, swelling, protuberance, protrusion, prominence, bulge, excrescence, tumescence, nodule, knob; wen, cyst, boil, carbuncle, blister, wart, corn: You ought to see a doctor about that lump on your foot. --v. 3 Often, lump together. combine, join, consolidate, collect, bunch, group, unite, mass, aggregate, blend, mix, throw or put together: Don't lump me together with everyone else, without even asking my opinion.
LURE|0|v. 1 tempt, attract, induce, coax, inveigle, seduce, draw in, entice, lead on, decoy, charm, persuade, allure, catch: She lured me into the trap of believing that she loved me. --n. 2 bait, decoy, attraction, temptation, inducement, magnet, siren song, charm, US drawing card, Slang come-on: Too many naìve people fall for the lure of easy money.
LURK|0|v. skulk, slink, prowl, steal, sneak, hide, (lie in) wait, lie low: The muggers were lurking in the shadows, waiting for a victim.
LUSH|0|adj. 1 luxuriant, thick, lavish, flourishing, verdant, green, dense, overgrown, thick, exuberant: The walls were covered with a lush growth of ivy. 2 juicy, succulent, mouth-watering, fresh, moist, ripe: We ate lush pears that we picked straight from the tree. 3 palatial, extravagant, elaborate, luxurious, opulent, sumptuous, Colloq ritzy, plush: The bridal suite is the lushest accommodation they offer.
LUST|0|n. 1 sensuality, libido, libidinousness, sexuality, lustfulness, concupiscence, sexual appetite, Slang horniness: The nouveaux riches spend much of their time and money satisfying their lust. 2 desire, drive, energy, voracity, avidity, avidness, ambition, ravenousness: Henry has an infectious enthusiasm and lust for life. --v. 3 lust after. desire, crave, hunger or thirst or hanker for or after, ache for: Barney was lusting after the barmaid at The Two Magpies.
MAID|0|n. 1 girl, maiden, lass, miss, nymphet, nymph, wench, damsel, mademoiselle, demoiselle, Scots lassie; virgin, virgo intacta: A lovely young maid was milking the cow. 2 housemaid, maidservant, domestic, chambermaid, lady's maid, Archaic or literary abigail, Brit daily, Archaic colloq Brit tweeny: When she rang, the maid brought in the tea. 3 old maid. spinster, bachelor girl: She never married and now is an old maid.
MAIL|0|n. 1 post, correspondence; letters: Has the mail arrived? --v. 2 post, send, dispatch or despatch: Please mail this letter tonight.
MAIM|0|v. cripple, mutilate, lame, disable, incapacitate, wound, wing, impair, hamstring, put out of action or commission; injure, harm, damage: Their daughter was badly maimed in the fire.
MAIN|0|adj. 1 chief, primary, prime, (most) important, principal, cardinal, paramount, first, foremost, leading, pre-eminent, predominant, predominating, dominant, ranking, major; outstanding: The main cause of traffic deaths is drunken driving. In Britain, the main street of a town is called 'the High Street'. We arrived late and missed the main entertainment. 2 largest, biggest, greatest, strongest: The main part of the strike force landed in Normandy. 3 necessary, essential, basic, particular, fundamental, critical, crucial, vital: Economic recovery is the main thrust of our programme for reform. 4 sheer, brute, utter, pure, out-and-out, absolute, mere, plain: He lifted that block by main force! --n. 5 pipe, duct, channel, line, pipeline, water or gas main, Brit (electric) cable, mains, power (supply), conduit: Water reaches the city through a huge underground main. 6 strength, power, might, effort, energy, vigour: With all his might and main he tried to move the stone blocking the cave. 7 in the main. See mainly, below.
MAKE|0|v. 1 build, assemble, construct, erect, put together, set up, fashion, form, mould, shape, frame, create, originate, fabricate, manufacture, produce, put out, forge, contrive, devise: She makes her own dresses. They make TV sets here. The Colossus of Rhodes was said to be made of bronze. 2 cause, compel, force, impel, coerce, provoke, urge, exhort, press, pressure, require, command, order, induce, persuade, prevail upon, insist upon, oblige, Brit pressurize: The devil made me do it. 3 bring about, occasion, cause, give rise to: The new regulation is going to make trouble for you. 4 make out or up, draw (up), create, write, sign, frame: I made a new will leaving everything to my children. 5 produce, cause, create, generate: The engine made a funny noise, then died. 6 enact, pass, frame, establish, institute: He thinks that laws were made to be broken. 7 earn, return, reap, garner, take in, get, procure, gather, clear, realize, gross, net, pocket, get, acquire, obtain, receive; win, gain, Slang US pull down: Has her invention made money? He makes a good living out of his shop. He made ø25 playing poker. 8 amount to, constitute, represent, add up to, total, come to: He knows how many beans make five. Three and two do not make four. One singer does not make an opera. 9 change, turn, alter, modify, transform, convert; transmute, mutate, metamorphose: He made her into a star. The alchemists tried to make base metal into gold. 10 become, be, change or turn or grow into, perform as: I think Quentin will make a brilliant surgeon one day. 11 serve as or for, be suitable for, be, prove to be, turn out to be, turn into, become: This cut of meat will not make a good roast. 12 fetch, realize, earn, return: The locket made ø1000 at the auction. 13 score, earn, secure: The West Indies made 654 in their first innings. 14 reach, arrive at, attain, get (to), win, achieve, accomplish; come in, Brit be placed, US place: Fran might make first place in the marathon. 15 prepare, arrange,...
MALE|0|adj. masculine, man's; virile, manly, manful; Archaic spear: His is bound to be a male point of view.
MANY|0|adj. 1 numerous, multitudinous, myriad, profuse, innumerable, numberless, uncountable: Many people have an irrational fear of spiders. 2 diverse, multifarious, varied, various, assorted, sundry, Literary divers: There are many kinds of courage. --pron., (n.) 3 horde(s), crowd(s), lot(s), swarm(s), throng(s), mass(es), profusion, multitude(s), abundance, plenty, shoal(s), flock(s), drove(s), torrent(s), flood(s), number(s), score(s), hundred(s), (thousand(s), etc.); Colloq ton(s), scads: A great many will turn out to vote next week. Many are picked but few are chosen.
MARK|0|n. 1 spot, stain, blemish, smear, smudge, trace, impression, dent, nick, scratch, pock-mark or pock, streak, line, Brit splodge, US splotch: One of the children had made a mark on the newly painted wall. 2 sign, symbol, insigne, emblem, device, hallmark, earmark, fingerprint, badge, characteristic, token, brand, stamp, label, identification, indication, feature, attribute, trait, quality, property: This work bears the mark of true genius. 3 standard, criterion, norm, yardstick, level, measure: I'm afraid your son's work has not come up to the mark. 4 rating, grade, grading: I'd give her a low mark for originality but high marks for technique. 5 influence, impression, effect: Her innovations have left their mark on all music composed since 1900. 6 target, goal, objective, aim, purpose, end, object: Her criticisms fell wide of the mark. 7 marker, indicator, guide, signpost, landmark: The next mark, a bell-buoy, should be left to port. 8 consequence, importance, note, noteworthiness, notability, distinction, eminence, dignity, prestige, standing, account: Granada was a place of little mark as compared with Cordova. 9 make one's mark. succeed, get ahead, triumph, distinguish oneself, attain distinction, bring honour upon oneself, acquit oneself, bring credit to oneself, have an effect, Colloq make it big, make the grade: Randolph has made his mark in the world of scholarship. --v. 10 Sometimes, mark up. spot, stain, blemish, smear, smudge, streak, dent, trace, pock-mark, nick, scratch, cut, chip, pit, bruise: That glass has marked the finish on the table. 11 signify, specify, indicate, designate, identify, tick, label: Mark your choice with an 'X' next to the candidate's name. 12 pay attention to, attend (to), pay heed to, note, notice, take notice of, watch, see, look at, observe; respect, mind, heed, obey: Mark the way she swings the golf club. Mark my words or you'll be sorry. 13 brand, stamp, identify, characterize, distinguish: His music is marked by long atonal pa...
MASK|0|n. 1 false face, domino: She wore a mask, and I don't know who she was. 2 disguise, guise, camouflage, show, semblance, pretence, cover, cover-up, false colours, false flag, concealment, cloak, faúade, veil: He wormed his way into her confidence under the mask of friendship. --v. 3 disguise, camouflage, cover (up), conceal, hide, obscure, veil, screen, shroud: She was unable to mask her true feelings for him.
MASS|0|n. 1 pile, heap, mountain, load, stack, mound, bunch, bundle, lot, batch, quantity, hoard, store, collection, accumulation, aggregation, agglomeration, congeries, assortment, miscellany, assemblage, conglomeration: There was a mass of boulders at the bottom of the cliff. 2 abundance, quantity, profusion, volume, multitude, horde, host, mob, crowd, throng, drove(s), herd(s), swarm(s), legion(s), score(s), number(s), Colloq bunch(es), ton(s), mountain, piles, bags, barrels, oodles, lots, oceans, loads, scads, US mess, slew(s): A mass of bills awaited my return from a trip abroad. Masses of people greeted us at the airport. 3 block, concretion, chunk, lump, hunk, nugget: A mass of sludge was clogging the valve. 4 majority, best or better or greater part, bulk, body, preponderance, almost all, lion's share: The great mass of the votes was still uncounted. 5 dimension, size, magnitude, bulk, bigness, massiveness, enormousness, immensity: The very mass of the elephant made it a hard target to miss. 6 the masses. the common people, the (common) herd, the proletariat, the plebeians, hoi polloi, the lower class(es), the man or woman in the street, Brit the man or woman on the Clapham omnibus, A. N. Other, US John Q. Public, John or Jane Doe or Roe: The taxes became burdensome and the masses rebelled. --v. 7 amass, pile or heap up, gather: Thunderclouds began to mass over the mountains. 8 aggregate, accumulate, collect, assemble, congregate, meet, get or come together, gather, forgather or foregather, throng, convene, flock together, rally, group, cluster, marshal, muster, mobilize: Thousands of people massed in front of the embassy. The massed bands made a tremendous noise.
MATE|0|n. 1 companion, associate, colleague, fellow, chap, co-worker, comrade, crony, ally, friend, alter ego, Colloq chum, pal, US buddy, cohort, Slang Brit cully, china: After work, my mates and I stop off for a beer or two (or three ) . 2 spouse, partner, helpmeet, helpmate, consort, husband or wife, better half, Colloq hubby, old man or lady or woman, lord and master, US bride, Slang trouble and strife (= 'wife'): He scarcely seems a worthy mate for the winner of a Miss World contest. 3 fellow, twin, counterpart, parallel, one of a pair: Have you seen the mate to this sock anywhere? --v. 4 pair (up), match (up), marry, wed, join, unite, couple, link (up): People should be free to mate with whom they wish. 5 breed, couple, copulate, pair (up): The zoo was able to get the rhinoceroses to mate. A lion was mated with a tiger to produce a tigon. 6 match (up), fit (together), synchronize, join: I cannot get these gears to mate.
MAZE|0|n. labyrinth, complex, intricacy, twistings and turnings, convolutions: His application has been lost in the maze of bureaucratic bungling.
MEAL|0|n. 1 food, repast, victuals, nourishment, spread, collation, refection; dinner, supper, breakfast, lunch, luncheon, Brit tea: Meals will be served in the main dining room. 2 make a meal of. overdo, overplay, go overboard, go or carry to extremes, carry or go too far, do to excess: Perkins is bound to make a meal of the slightest thing.
MEAN|0|v. 1 intend, design, purpose, plan, aim, have in mind, contemplate, have in view; want, wish, expect, hope; be motivated by, have as justification: I did mean to phone you but had no time. I am sure she meant nothing by her remark. 2 denote, signify, indicate, note, specify, designate, represent, betoken, signal, carry, convey, drive at, refer to, allude to, communicate, express, bring out, get over or across; imply, suggest, connote, intimate, hint (at): What does 'canicular' mean? It depends on what you mean by 'liberty'. The footprints meant that someone had already been here. 3 portend, show, foretell, foreshadow, promise, presage, augur, herald: Those clouds mean that it will soon rain. 4 carry or have the weight or significance or importance of: Money means little to someone in her circumstances. n. 1 average, middle, norm, (happy) medium: We are attempting to achieve the mean between the two extremes. 2 by all means. a absolutely, definitely, certainly, surely, assuredly, of course, positively: By all means, do tell us what you think is wrong. b in any event, at all events, no matter what, without fail, at any cost, in any case: By all means, you must do what you think is right. 3 by means of. by dint of, via, through, by way of, with the help or aid of, employing, using, utilizing: She gained access to her victims by means of the telephone directory. We entered by means of the front door. 4 means. a instrument, agency, method, process, technique, mode, manner, way(s), approach, course, procedure, avenue, medium, vehicle: If you can find the means, then get the job done at once. b resources, funds, money, wherewithal, capital, finances, backing, support: I wanted to go to Australia to see my brother, but I simply didn't have the means. c substance, wealth, property, position, financial stability: She is a woman of considerable means. 5 by no means. by no manner of means, in no way, not at all, definitely or absolutely not, on no account, not conceivably, not ...
MEAT|0|n. 1 flesh; food, nourishment, sustenance, viands, victuals, nutriment, provisions, provender, comestibles, edibles, eatables, Colloq eats, chow, grub: She's turned vegetarian and won't touch meat in any form. 2 pith, core, heart, marrow, kernel, vital part, essence, gist, substance, basics, essentials, crux: The sub-plot seems to swamp the real meat of the play.
MEET|0|v. 1 encounter, come across, chance on or upon, happen on or upon, stumble on or into, see, Colloq run across or into, bump into: Guess who I met in the park this morning! 2 Often, meet with. rendezvous (with), get together (with); convene, assemble, gather, collect, forgather or foregather, congregate: I met with the mysterious stranger as arranged. The board meets at 9.00 am. 3 make the acquaintance of, be introduced to, first encounter, come across, find: Where did you meet your wife? 4 link up, join, come together, unite, adjoin, abut, touch, intersect: The horizon is where the sky meets earth. 5 answer, deal with, handle, satisfy, fulfil, take care of, dispose of, heed, observe, carry out; gratify, pay, settle, defray, liquidate: Will these precautions meet the requirements of the Department of the Environment? The police advised the parents not to meet the kidnapper's demands. 6 meet with. encounter, be met by, experience; undergo, endure, suffer, have, go through: All our efforts met with little or no response. Gary met with an accident yesterday. --n. 7 competition, contest, meeting, match, tourney, tournament; muster, rally: The track meet was won by our team.
MELT|0|v. 1 soften, thaw, liquefy, fuse, dissolve, liquidize, deliquesce: You'd better eat that ice-cream before it melts. 2 soften, thaw, mollify, assuage, touch, move, disarm, mellow: The look on the child's face melted his icy reserve. 3 Usually, melt into. blend, fade, merge, disappear, dissolve, shrink: As soon as the police arrived, Phyllis tried to melt into the background. 4 melt away. disappear, dissolve, vanish, evaporate, go away, fade, pass, decline, decrease, shrink, dwindle, diminish: When the company began to make a profit, all his previous reservations melted away.
MEND|0|v. 1 repair, fix, patch (up), rectify, correct, remedy, restore, rehabilitate; heal: When will you get round to mending the roof? 2 correct, improve, better, ameliorate, reform, revise, rectify, set or put right, emend: When are you going to mend your ways? 3 heal, improve, recover, convalesce, recuperate, get better: It took me a few months to mend after the accident. --n. 4 repair, patch: You can hardly see where the mend is. 5 on the mend. recovering, recuperating, convalescing, convalescent, improving: The good news is that father is on the mend after his attack.
MERE|0|adj. bare, basic, scant, stark, sheer; absolute, unmixed, only, just, nothing but, pure (and simple), unmitigated, undiluted: She was a mere slip of a girl. We need something more to go on than mere hearsay evidence.
MESH|0|n. 1 mesh-work, network, netting, net, web, webbing, lattice, lattice-work, screen, screening, interlacing, lace-work, grid, grate, grating, grater, sieve, strainer, trellis, trellis-work, decussation, Technical rete, reticle or reticule or graticule, reticulation, plexus, plexure, reticulum; interstice: The mesh of the hammock broke and I fell to the ground. 2 Often, meshes. grip, clutches, grasp, toils, web, trap, entanglement, tangle, complex, complexity, intricacy: Her papers were lost in the meshes of the filing system. --v. 3 catch, entangle, enmesh, grab, trap, entrap, snare, ensnare, involve: I became meshed inextricably in the complexities of her life. 4 engage, fit (together), dovetail, knit, enmesh, match, interlock: After they were aligned, the gears meshed perfectly.
MESS|0|n. 1 chaos, disorder, disarray, disorganization, shambles, muddle, disarrangement, clutter, hotchpotch or US also hodgepodge, litter, tangle, jumble, confusion, mishmash; untidiness: Would you help me clean up this mess? Drugs have made a mess of her life. 2 concoction, mixture, medley, miscellany, hash, gallimaufry, farrago, olio, olla podrida, pot-pourri, smorgasbord or smærgösbord, kedgeree: They presented us with a huge mess of things from which we must select what we want. 3 predicament, difficulty, plight, pinch, trouble, dilemma, quandary, imbroglio, Colloq foul-up, stew, fix, hot water, (pretty or fine) kettle of fish, pickle, jam, Slang screw-up, Brit balls-up, can of worms, US snafu: You have got yourself into a fine mess this time! --v. 4 mess about or around (with). a potter, fool (around), dally, busy oneself, fiddle about or around, play: He enjoys messing about in boats. b philander, trifle, toy, flirt, seduce, sleep around, fool around, run around: She doesn't want him to mess about with other women. 5 mess up. a disarrange, disarray, dishevel, tousle, Colloq US muss (up): He always messes up my hair when he kisses me. b ruin, destroy, make a shambles of, wreck, bungle, botch, foul up, Colloq make a hash of, Slang muck up: Making that one little mistake messed up his whole career. c dirty, clutter up, make untidy, turn upside down, pull to pieces, upset: The police messed up my whole house looking for the pistol. 6 mess with. interfere in or with, intervene, meddle with or in, intrude in, butt in or into, tinker with, tamper with, get involved in or with: They ought to learn not to mess with things that don't concern them.
METE|0|v. Usually, mete out. deal (out), apportion, distribute, dole (out), allot, assign, allocate, parcel out, share (out), ration (out), measure out, dispense, hand out, give out, pass out, Colloq dish out: Punishment was meted out to those who deserved it.
MILD|0|adj. 1 placid, peaceful, calm, tranquil, bland, mellow, inoffensive, gentle, serene, good-natured, affable, amiable, kind, kindly, equable, easygoing, temperate, non-violent, conciliatory, indulgent, merciful, forgiving, compassionate, lenient, forbearing, peaceable, pacific, passive, submissive, yielding, tractable, meek, unassuming, modest, quiet, subdued: Judge Leaver is known for his mild disposition. 2 clement, balmy, warm, fair, pleasant, temperate, placid, moderate: We've had a succession of mild winters here. 3 bland, soothing, lenitive, mollifying, demulcent, emollient, gentle, calming, softening: The doctor recommended a mild laxative.
MILK|0|v. drain, bleed, extract, tap, exploit, wring, draw off or out, withdraw: The comic milked the joke for yet another laugh. The taxman is milking me dry.
MIND|0|n. 1 intelligence, intellect, wit, wits, mentality, brain, brains, brainpower, sense, sagacity, wisdom, perception, percipience, reason, astuteness, insight, shrewdness, sapience, Colloq grey matter: There is nothing wrong with your son's mind, Mr Field; he just doesn't want to apply it to school work. 2 memory, recollection; remembrance: Keep in mind what I am about to tell you. 3 aptitude, head, perception, capacity, brain: She has a great mind for dates - for figures of all kinds. 4 intellect, intellectual, sage, genius, thinker, Colloq brain: There is no doubt that your daughter is one of the great minds of all time. 5 intention, disposition, temper, temperament, humour, fancy, tendency, bent, inclination, bias, persuasion: I was of a mind to let him have his own way. 6 opinion, sentiment, attitude, (point of) view, feeling, judgement, belief, viewpoint, position: She has a mind of her own. To my mind, the process could be greatly speeded up. 7 feeling, position, will, wish, desire, plan(s): Won't you change your mind and stay to dinner? 8 attention, thoughts, concentration, thinking: Try to keep your mind on your work. 9 bear or keep in mind. remember, do not forget or overlook, recall, retain, be aware or cognizant or mindful of, consider: Bear in mind that the post office is closed tomorrow. 10 give someone a piece of one's mind. castigate, scold, rebuke, reprimand, rail at, reprove, reproach, chastise, upbraid, berate, read (someone) the riot act, Colloq tell off, dress down, haul or rake over the coals, skin alive, US bawl out; Slang give someone hell, US chew out: This time my father really gave the maítre d'hõtel a piece of his mind. 11 in or of two minds. vacillating, undecided, ambivalent, uncertain, shilly-shallying, unsure, wavering: Sam was in two minds about ordering a new computer. 12 know one's (own) mind. be decided or resolved, be firm or resolute, be sure or certain or positive, be (self-)assured or (self-)confident, be in touch with oneself:...
MINE|0|n. 1 pit, excavation, lode, vein; colliery, coalfield: My father worked in a mine from the age of 14. 2 source, mother-lode, vein, store, storehouse, supply, deposit, depository or depositary, repository, reserve, hoard, treasure trove, reservoir, well-spring; abundance, fund, gold-mine, wealth, treasury: This encyclopedia is a rich mine of information. --v. 3 excavate, dig, quarry, extract, scoop out or up, remove, unearth; derive, extract, draw: He claims to have mined coal in Wales and gold in South Africa. Analysis shows this ore was mined in Pennsylvania. 4 ransack, search, rake through, scour, scan, read, survey, look through, probe: Several directories were mined to compile our list of sales prospects.
MINT|0|n. 1 (small) fortune, lot, king's ransom, millions, billions, Colloq bundle, pile, heap, wad(s), packet, pot(s), loads, ton, Slang Brit bomb, US (big) bucks: He lost a mint at roulette last night. She made a mint on her inventions. --v. 2 make, coin, produce, earn: Special commemorative coins were minted to celebrate the Coronation.
MIRE|0|n. 1 swamp, bog, fen, marsh, quagmire, morass, slough, Brit dialect sump: The horse stumbled into the mire and began to flounder. 2 mud, ooze, muck, slime, dirt: I had to wade through muck and mire to get to your front door. --v. 3 enmire, bog down, become entangled or tangled, become enmeshed or meshed, become involved: Sorry I'm late; I got mired in a problem at the office. 4 dirty, soil, begrime, muddy, befoul, besmirch, sully, tarnish, smear, blacken, defile, smudge: My boots were badly mired. The scandal badly mired his reputation.
MISS|0|v. 1 skip, forgo, absent oneself from, be absent from, fail to keep; avoid, evade, escape, dodge, Colloq pass up: I missed my dentist's appointment. I missed school because my grandmother was ill. 2 long for, yearn for, pine for, feel nostalgia for, be nostalgic for or about, want, need, wish for: I miss those long summer evenings by the lake. 3 misunderstand, misinterpret, misconstrue, misapprehend, fail to understand or perceive, mistake: You have completely missed the point. 4 Sometimes, miss out (on). pass up, omit, leave out, slip up (on), overlook, let slip (by), let pass, pass over, disregard, ignore: You can be sure that Frobisher would never miss a free meal. --n. 5 omission, oversight, slip, failure, mistake, error, blunder, Colloq slip-up: A miss is as good as a mile.
MIST|0|n. 1 fog, haze, smog, (low-hanging) cloud, vapour; drizzle, Brit dialect mizzle: I could scarcely make out the road in the mist. --v. 2 Usually, mist up or over. cloud (up or over), becloud, fog, befog, dim, blur, film, steam up: The mirror in the bathroom had misted up when I was having a shower.
MOAN|0|n. 1 complaint, lament, lamentation, groan, wail, moaning, grievance: Disregard his moans about money - he has plenty. --v. 2 complain, lament, groan, wail, bewail, grumble, bemoan, deplore, whine, whimper, Colloq grouse, gripe, beef, bitch, Brit whinge: She's always moaning about the way people take advantage of her. 3 sigh, mourn, weep, sorrow, cry, wail, keen, grieve, sob, snivel, bawl, mewl, pule, ululate: The women, all in black, moaned and tore their hair as they neared the coffin.
MOCK|0|v. 1 deride, ridicule, make fun of, tease, taunt, tantalize, jeer (at), gibe (at), thumb one's nose at, chaff, laugh at, poke fun at, make sport of, guy, scorn, flout, abuse, defy, scoff (at), sneer (at), disdain, disparage, decry, Archaic fleer (at), Colloq rag, rib, kid, put (someone) on, Brit take the mickey out of, cock a snook at: He was taken in for questioning only because he mocked a police officer. Jealousy is the green-eyed monster that mocks the meat it feeds on. 2 ape, mimic, imitate, caricature, lampoon, satirize, parody, burlesque, travesty, Colloq spoof, take off, Brit send up: The political cartoonist mocks governments daily on the pillory of his pen. --adj. 3 substitute, artificial, simulated, fake, synthetic, imitation, false, forged, ersatz, sham, feigned, counterfeit, fraudulent, bogus, make-believe, pretend, Colloq phoney or US also phony, pseudo: By means of a mock car accident they demonstrated how to rescue victims. Mock turtle soup, though good, does not taste like real turtle soup.
MODE|0|n. 1 way, manner, method, approach, form, course, fashion, procedure, technique, system, wise, modus operandi, methodology, standard operating procedure, SOP: What mode of teaching foreign languages do you use? 2 status, condition, state, configuration, set-up: The computer is now in printing mode.
MONK|0|n. brother, religious, coenobite, monastic, Loosely friar: He was accepted into the Benedictine order, also called the black monks.
MOOD|0|n. 1 humour, attitude, inclination, disposition, nature, temper, frame of mind, spirit, atmosphere, sense, feeling: The mood of the people is rebellious. She's in a bad mood. 2 in the mood. ready, willing, eager, keen, (well-)disposed, inclined, sympathetic, minded: I'm not in the mood for a film tonight, but I am in the mood to go dancing.
MOOR|0|n. heath, moorland, wasteland, No. Eng. and Scots fell: The police pursued the escaped prisoner across the moor, but they lost him.
MOOT|0|adj. 1 debatable, arguable, undecided, undetermined, controversial, doubtful, disputable, open to debate, at issue, indefinite, problematic(al), questionable, open (to question or to discussion), confutable, confuted, contestable, contested, unsettled, unresolved, up in the air, unconcluded: Whether he would be found innocent was still a moot point. --v. 2 bring up or forward, introduce, broach, put forward, proffer, posit, propound, advance, submit, suggest: It has been mooted that she was with the victim just before the murder.
MOVE|0|v. 1 shift, stir, budge, make a move, go; proceed, advance, progress: It is difficult to move in a strait-jacket. The train is moving at a rate of sixty miles an hour. Don't move - I have a gun. 2 move house, move out, remove, move away, relocate, decamp, depart, change residence, emigrate, go or make off, transfer, Colloq take off (for), pull up stakes, Brit up sticks, Slang US split (for): When did you say you were moving to London? 3 shake (up), disturb, stir (up), agitate, affect, touch: We moved heaven and earth to find a proper place for her to stay. 4 affect, touch, stir, shake up, agitate, hit (hard), upset, strike, smite, disturb, ruffle, disquiet, have an (or a profound) effect (on), make a (deep) impression (on): The pictures of starving children moved everyone. 5 provoke, arouse, excite, stir up, lead, rouse, stimulate: At the end of the film, when she died, I was moved to tears. 6 arouse, rouse, provoke, actuate, lead, prompt, spur, motivate, influence, impel, prod, remind, inspire, make: His mention of families moved me to ask when he had last seen his father. 7 propose, put forward or forth, forward, advance, submit, suggest, advocate, propound: The question of budget was moved at the last meeting. --n. 8 change, change-over, relocation, transfer, shift, removal: My supervisor suggested a move to a different department. 9 manoeuvre, device, trick, caper, dodge, ploy, stratagem, artifice, ruse, action, act, deed, Colloq gimmick: Getting Diana to invite Colin was a very good move. 10 turn, time, opportunity: I have had my turn, now it's your move. 11 gesture, gesticulation, action, motion, stirring: One move and you're a dead man! 12 get a move on. a get moving, begin, start, commence, get going, get under way, get started, stir or bestir oneself, Colloq get or start the ball rolling, get the show on the road, break the ice, get cracking, step on it or the gas: He doesn't usually get a move on till noon. b hurry, hasten, make haste, rush, run: Get a mov...
MULL|0|v. Usually, mull over. ponder, consider, study, think (over or about), cogitate (on or over or about), con, evaluate, turn over, weigh, deliberate (on or over), reflect (on), muse (on), review, examine, contemplate, meditate (on), chew over, ruminate (on or over),: I have been mulling over your suggestion that I should join the navy.
MUSE|0|v. cogitate, meditate, reflect, contemplate, ruminate, think over, think about, consider, chew over, deliberate, revolve, weigh, evaluate, study, mull over, brood (over), ponder; be absorbed (in thought), be in a brown study, dream, day-dream, be in a trance or reverie: Asked for a decision, Michael mused for a while before answering.
MUST|0|v. 1 ought (to), should, have to, be obliged or obligated to, be compelled or forced to, be required to: I must get this work done before lunch-time. Must you go? Yes, I must. --n. 2 necessity, requisite, requirement, obligation, sine qua non, essential: Patience is an absolute must in this job.
MUTE|0|adj. 1 silent, dumb, speechless, voiceless, wordless, tight-lipped, taciturn, tacit, reserved, quiet, Colloq mum: Though I persisted in asking his name, he remained mute. 2 unspoken, unsaid, tacit, silent: The stain on the floor was a mute reminder of the crime. --v. 3 deaden, silence, muffle, stifle, dampen, damp, subdue, suppress, quiet or Brit also quieten, hush, soft-pedal, turn down, tone down: The carpet muted her footsteps as she crept up behind him.
MYTH|0|n. 1 legend, fable, allegory, parable, tradition, saga, epic, (folk) tale, story, mythos; history: The ancient myths have provided sources for much of modern literature. 2 fable, lie, (tall) tale, fib, prevarication, fiction, untruth, falsehood, fabrication, cock-and-bull story, Colloq whopper: He told her some myth about his being a multimillionaire and she believed it.
NAIL|0|n. 1 fastener, fastening, spike, pin: The pieces were held together by several nails. 2 fingernail, toenail, claw, talon: The detective found some fibres under the victim's nails. 3 bite one's nails. worry, agonize, fret, lose sleep (over), chafe, suffer, Colloq stew (over or about): Carl is biting his nails over the result of his cholesterol test. 4 hard or tough as nails. a tough, vigorous, hardy: After years of mountain-climbing, Ren÷ is as hard as nails. b cold, unsentimental, unsympathetic, unfeeling: The boss, as hard as nails, doesn't care what you sacrifice to get the job done. 5 hit the nail on the head. be accurate, be correct, be precise, be right, put (one's) finger on it: When you said they were fools, you really hit the nail on the head. 6 on the nail. immediately, at once, straight or right away, promptly, without delay, on the spot, Colloq US on the barrel-head: He has always paid his bills right on the nail. --v. 7 attach, secure, join, pin, tack, clinch or clench; fasten, fix, focus, rivet, glue: The door to the mysterious room was nailed shut. His eyes were nailed to the pressure gauge. 8 See nab, above. 9 hit, strike; punch; shoot: She nailed him with a left hook and he sank like a stone. 10 nail down. settle, secure, resolve, complete, conclude, make final; finalize: Let's celebrate: I nailed down the order for 10,000 air-conditioning units.
NAME|0|n. 1 designation, label, appellation, term, tag, style, Colloq moniker or monicker, handle: His name is Chauncy but they call him Rusty. 2 reputation; repute, honour, esteem, (high) regard, respect, rank, standing, rating, pre-eminence, superiority, eminence, notability, prominence, prestige, favour, distinction, renown, fame, popularity, celebrity: She has made a name for herself as a clever business executive. He thinks he has to protect his name as a ladies' man. 3 personage, somebody, celebrity, star, superstar, hero, VIP, dignitary, luminary, Colloq big shot, bigwig, big cheese, big name: The programme included some well-known names in the entertainment world. --v. 4 label, tag, style, entitle; call, dub, christen, baptize: They named their book 'The Alien Tongue'. Why would people want to name their child 'Quercus'? 5 choose, elect, select, delegate, nominate, designate, appoint; identify, denominate, pinpoint, specify: She has been named 'Woman of the Year'. I asked her to name our wedding day. She refuses to name her attacker. 6 name names. identify, specify, mention, cite: In exchange for a lighter sentence, the witness agreed to name names.
NAVE|0|adj. naive or naìf, ingenuous, innocent, credulous, childlike, born yesterday, unaffected, unsophisticated, inexperienced, green, unworldly, unsuspecting, unenlightened, unsuspicious, trusting, trustful, gullible, artless, guileless, simple, simplistic, simple-minded, unpretentious, unpretending, candid, natural: Is Chatterley naìve enough to believe that the gamekeeper's meetings with his wife were to discuss fox-hunting?
NAVY|0|n. fleet, flotilla, naval force(s), armada, Literary argosy: The entire navy sailed across the Channel to Le Havre.
NEAR|0|adv. 1 close (by or at hand), not far (off or away), nearby, nigh, in or into the vicinity or neighbourhood, within (easy) reach: Draw near and listen to my tale. 2 close to, next to: Don't go near the edge! 3 nearly, almost, just about, wellnigh, close to being; not quite, virtually: She was damn near killed in the car crash. --adj. 4 close, imminent, immediate, impending, looming, coming, approaching, forthcoming; in the offing, at hand: We hope to settle the pollution problem in the near future. The time is near for me to go. 5 nearby, close, adjacent, next-door, close-by, adjoining, abutting, neighbouring, contiguous: My nearest neighbours live a mile away. 6 stingy, mean, niggardly, miserly, parsimonious, penurious, cheap, penny-pinching, cheese-paring, selfish, close, tight-fisted, close-fisted: He is so near he begrudged me even a cup of tea. 7 close, intimate, connected, related, attached: In case of emergency, list the name and address of a near relative. 8 close, narrow, hairbreadth: Although I escaped, it was a near thing. --prep. 9 close to, in the vicinity or neighbourhood of, next to, adjacent to, within reach of, within a mile of; a stone's throw from, not far (away) from: She wouldn't allow the doctor to come near her. I live near the railway. --v. 10 approach, draw near or nigh, come close or closer, verge on, approximate on, lean towards: As summer nears, I think of going on holiday. The ship neared port. His estimate is beginning to near mine.
NEAT|0|adj. 1 tidy, orderly, clean, uncluttered, trim, spruce, natty, fastidious, spick and span, shipshape (and Bristol fashion), organized, well-organized, well-ordered, systematic, Brit dialect trig, Colloq neat as a pin, Brit dinky: His room was always neat - very odd for a teenager. 2 straight, unadulterated, unmixed, undiluted, uncut, unblended, pure; on the rocks: He drinks his whisky neat. 3 unembellished, unadorned, unornamented, simple, elegant, graceful, smart, uncomplicated, regular, precise, copperplate; calligraphic: An invitation in her neat handwriting awaited my return from abroad. 4 deft, adroit, clever, efficient, ingenious, expert, practised, skilful, dexterous: He contrived a neat plan to avoid paying taxes. 5 fine, wonderful, marvellous, great, splendid, excellent, exceptional, capital, grand, first-class, Colloq cool, smashing, keen, nifty, top-notch, A1 or A-1 or A-one, Brit top-hole, Chiefly US A-OK or A-okay, Slang swell, far-out, boss, Brit topping, US and Canadian spiffy: She found a really neat way to get boys to ask her out. Gordon has a neat new car.
NEED|0|v. 1 require, demand, want, be in want of, call for, have need of or for; lack, miss, have occasion for: This room needs a coat of paint. Although she may want more money, she doesn't need it. Do you need anything to make you more comfortable? --n. 2 necessity, requirement; call, demand, constraint: There's no need to shout - I can hear you. There is a need to keep this matter confidential. This facility will meet our electricity needs for decades. 3 essential, necessary, requisite, prerequisite, necessity, basic, fundamental, sine qua non, necessary, desideratum: I am perfectly capable of taking care of my family's needs. 4 distress, difficulty, trouble, (dire or desperate) straits, stress, emergency, exigency, extremity, neediness, needfulness; poverty, penury, impecuniousness, destitution, privation, deprivation, indigence, beggary: She was very supportive in his hour of need. The need of the people in that district is heart-rending. 5 want, lack, dearth, shortage, paucity, scarcity, insufficiency, desideratum: The need for medical supplies was most sharply felt in areas that were already ravaged by famine.
NEST|0|n. 1 roost, perch, eyrie or US also aerie, den, lair: The birds, which mate for life, return to the same nest each year. 2 snuggery, retreat, refuge, haunt, hideaway, hide-out; resort: We have a little nest in the country which we escape to at weekends.
NEWS|0|n. 1 tidings, word, information, advice, intelligence; rumour, talk, gossip, hearsay, dirt, scandal, expos÷, Colloq info, low-down, scoop, US scuttlebutt, Slang dope: What's the latest news about the situation in the Middle East? 2 dispatch or despatch, report, account, story, communication, bulletin, communiqu÷, announcement, information, message, word, statement, (press) release, (news)flash: The news from our correspondent contains no mention of finding a cache of arms. 3 newscast, news broadcast or telecast, news programme; newsflash: Please be quiet so that I can listen to the news. 4 (good) copy, front-page news, (hot) item: The royal family is always news.
NICE|0|adj. 1 pleasant, agreeable, amiable, amicable, friendly, cordial, warm, gracious, warm-hearted, kind, kindly, outgoing, charming, genial, delightful, courteous, polite, refined, gentlemanly, ladylike, winsome, likeable, attractive: They are one of the nicest couples I have ever met. 2 good, satisfactory, commendable, worthy, worthwhile: The manager said that I had done a nice job in preparing the specifications. 3 good, fine, superb, superior, attentive, sharp, acute, keen, careful, exact, exacting, rigorous; precise, accurate, unerring, scrupulous, meticulous, punctilious, discriminating, discriminative, perceptive, delicate, fastidious, flawless, faultless, subtle, strict, close, small, slight, minute, complex, complicated, intricate: A diamond cutter must have a nice eye for detail. It is difficult to maintain nice distinctions of meaning among certain words, given that people are so careless with their speech these days. 4 delicate, subtle, sensitive, exquisite, hair-splitting, over-nice, fine, critical, ticklish, dangerous, precarious, perilous, Colloq hairy: The matter of Hong Kong requires some nice political negotiations. 5 trim, well turned out, tidy, neat, fine: Don't you want to look nice for your birthday party? 6 nice and - pleasantly, delightfully, pleasingly, agreeably, enjoyably, gratifyingly, satisfyingly, comfortably: It's nice and warm by the fire.
NICK|0|n. 1 cut, notch, chip, gouge, gash, scratch, dent, indentation, flaw, mark, blemish, defect: Be careful of that nick in the rim of the glass. 2 jail or Brit also gaol; police station: The police took him to the nick to help them with their inquiries. --v. 3 steal, purloin, take, appropriate, make off with, Colloq pinch: Who nicked my biro? 4 arrest, nab, take in, Colloq collar: Alan was nicked for possession of marijuana. 5 nick off. depart, go or run off or away, take off, take to one's heels, show a clean pair of heels, beat a (hasty) retreat, Colloq scarper, make tracks, beat it: The cops were coming so I nicked off.
NONE|0|pron. no one, not anyone, nobody, no person; not one; not any; nil: Of all the people I met, none impressed me more than Kathy. I'd give you a sweet if I had one, but I have none. I'd even give you money, but I have none.
NOOK|0|n. 1 cranny, recess, niche, alcove, corner, cavity, crevice, crack, opening: Flowers grew from the nooks in the wall. 2 retreat, hide-out, hideaway, nest; inglenook: I curled up with a book in my nook next to the fireplace.
NOON|0|n. twelve o'clock (noon), midday, 1200 hours, noontime, high noon, Archaic noontide; noonday: We sit down to lunch promptly at noon. The noon sun is terribly hot in the tropics.
NORM|0|n. 1 usual, average, mean, normal: The norm for the day is 12 degrees Celsius. 2 model, standard, type, pattern, criterion, rule, measure, gauge, yardstick, benchmark: That style of window became the norm for many years.
NOSY|0|adj. nosey, curious, inquisitive, prying, meddlesome, spying, peeping, eavesdropping, Colloq snooping, snoopy: Mind your own business and don't be so nosy.
NOTE|0|n. 1 See notation, 1, above. 2 message, letter, communication, (piece of) correspondence, memorandum, epistle, postcard or (postal) card, fan letter, love-letter, billet doux, bread-and-butter letter, word, line, thank-you note, Colloq memo, US old-fashioned mash note: She sent Rob a note only last week asking him to attend the meeting. 3 comment, commentary, remark, observation, explanation, annotation, footnote, side-note, marginalia (pl.), gloss, critique, criticism, Literary scholium, exegesis, eisegesis, Technical shoulder-note: Her notes on insect behaviour are of great interest. 4 banknote, money, bill, currency, treasury note; promissory note, demand note, bill of exchange, letter of credit, (bank) draft, note of hand; Colloq folding money: I found a packet of notes dropped by the bank robbers. The bank is holding my note for ø10,000. 5 theme, characteristic, motif, element, quality, mood, tone, tenor: There is a note of angry frustration that runs through her writing. 6 signal, cue, intimation, hint, inkling, suspicion, clue, suggestion, idea, tip, Slang tip-off: Her greeting, though warm, contained a note of suspicion. On that note, I decided to leave. 7 heed, attention, notice, regard, respect, thought, Colloq US mind: Note of the prosecutor's objection to that line of questioning has been taken. 8 mark, consequence, substance, importance, moment, weight, distinction, merit, prestige, (high) rank or standing, eminence, prominence, repute, reputation, renown: People of note have been entertained at our table. 9 tone, sound; key: He knows the music but gets the notes wrong. 10 notes. jottings, impressions, record(s), report, (thumbnail) sketch, (rough) draft, outline, synopsis: The entire account is based on the notes she made during the trial. --v. 11 notice, observe, perceive, see, mark, think about, give thought to, consider, contemplate, study, pay attention to, attend to; look into, investigate, check out: Have you ever noted how people try to avoid y...
NUDE|0|adj. unclothed, undressed, uncovered, au naturel, bare, naked, in the nude, stark naked, undraped, without a stitch (on), Colloq in the buff, in the altogether, in one's birthday suit, Brit starkers, Brit and Australian in the nuddy: A nude man streaked across the football pitch.
NUMB|0|adj. 1 numbed, benumbed, insensible, insensate, dead, deadened, without feeling, sensationless, senseless; asleep: My feet are numb from the cold. --v. 2 benumb, anaesthetize, drug, deaden, dull, freeze, paralyse, immobilize, stun: The doctor numbed my hand before removing the wart. Fear numbed her, and she felt nothing as the monster approached.
OATH|0|n. 1 vow, avowal, pledge, promise, word (of honour), promise, plight, guarantee or guaranty, warrant or warranty, (sworn) statement, Archaic troth: She has taken an oath to tell the whole truth. 2 curse, profanity, blasphemous language or expression or word, imprecation, malediction, swear-word, expletive, four-letter word, obscenity, dirty word: The door slammed on his finger and he muttered a foul oath.
OBEY|0|v. 1 comply (with), agree (to), consent (to), submit (to), abide (by), observe, respect, adhere to, follow, conform (to or with), acquiesce (to or in), mind, accept, heed, defer to, yield (to), knuckle under (to), give way (to), surrender (to), succumb (to), give in (to), truckle to, bow to, bend to, take or accept orders from: Unfortunately, Ogilvy has obeyed his baser instincts in making the punishment fit the crime. Everything must obey the laws of nature. Harold obeys Millie's slightest whim. 2 discharge, execute, effect, carry out, fulfil, meet, satisfy, do, perform; serve, act: We obeyed the colonel's orders to the letter. It is your function to command, mine to obey.
ODDS|0|n.pl. 1 chances, likelihood, probability: The odds are that Janet will finish the job in time. 2 edge, advantage, lead, superiority: We have won before against greater odds. 3 difference, inequality, disparity, unevenness, discrepancy, dissimilarity, distinction: It makes no odds who you are, you may not go in there. 4 at odds. at variance, at loggerheads, at daggers drawn, at sixes and sevens, at cross purposes, at each other's throats, in disagreement, in opposition, on bad terms, not in keeping, out of line, inharmonious, conflicting, clashing, disagreeing, differing: Teenagers have been at odds with their parents since time immemorial. 5 odds and ends. oddments, fragments, debris, leftovers, leavings, remnants, bits (and pieces), particles, shreds, snippets, scraps, rubbish, litter, Colloq Brit odds and sods: We managed to pack everything into boxes except for a few odds and ends.
OGLE|0|v. 1 leer, eye, make eyes at, Colloq give (someone) the glad eye, give (someone) the once-over, make sheep's eyes at: The old lecher is always ogling the pretty young secretaries. 2 gape, gaze, goggle, gawk, stare, Slang Brit gawp or gaup: We took turns ogling the rings of Saturn through the telescope. --n. 3 leer, stare, gape, goggle, oeillade, Colloq once-over, glad eye: They all crowded round the paper for an ogle at the pin-ups.
OGRE|0|n. ogress, monster, giant, fiend, demon, troll, man-eater, bogey, bogeyman, bugbear, spectre, Minotaur, Cyclops, Gorgon, Caliban; brute, sadist, villain, cad, scoundrel: The ogre chased Jack to the beanstalk. The persistent ogre of poverty threatened him all his life.
OILY|0|adj. 1 greasy, oleaginous, fat, fatty, adipose, pinguid, sebaceous, soapy, saponaceous, buttery, butyraceous, lardaceous; slippery, slimy, slithery, smooth, unctuous: The cars slid about as the tyres failed to grip the oily surface. 2 glib, smooth, unctuous, servile, obsequious, sycophantic, ingratiating, flattering, hypocritical; suave, urbane, sophisticated, Colloq smarmy: Sarah found Curtis's approach sickeningly oily.
OMEN|0|n. portent, augury, sign, token, foretoken, indication, harbinger, forewarning, premonition, foreshadowing, writing on the wall, prognostic, presage: Solar eclipses were once regarded as omens, sometimes good, sometimes bad.
OMIT|0|v. 1 leave out, exclude, skip, except, pass over; delete, erase, cancel, eradicate, edit out, strike (out), dele, cut (out), cross out, obliterate: She was offended because he omitted any mention of all that she had contributed. 2 neglect, disregard, fail, forget, overlook, let slide, ignore: I omitted to tell you that your sister telephoned yesterday.
ONCE|0|adv. 1 once upon a time, formerly, (at) one time, on a former occasion, previously, before, in days gone by, in olden days, in the (good) old days, long ago, some time ago, years or ages or aeons ago, in days of yore: Your hair is as long as mine once was. He was once a famous film star. That once revered leader has fallen. 2 one time, on one occasion, a single time: He has visited his family only once in all these years. 3 once and for all. finally, positively, definitely, decidedly, conclusively, for good: We must settle the itinerary once and for all before we can make the bookings. 4 once in a while. occasionally, (every) now and then, now and again, at times, sometimes, periodically, from time to time, at intervals, sporadically: We go to the theatre once in a while. --conj. 5 (if) ever, as soon as, at any time: Once the bus comes, you'd best get on it straight away. --n. 6 at once. a immediately, straight away, right away, directly, without delay, promptly, instantly, post-haste; in a wink, in the twinkling of an eye, in a minute or moment or second or split second, in no time (at all), before you can turn around, before you can say 'Jack Robinson', in a trice, Colloq in a jiffy, in two shakes of a lamb's tail: Watson, come here at once. I'll be there at once. b together, at the same time, simultaneously, at a stroke, in the same instant, in the same breath, Colloq at one go, at a go, in one go: You cannot be in two places at once.
ONLY|0|adj. 1 sole, single, solitary, lone, one and only, exclusive: He is the only one who can identify the murderer. --adv. 2 solely, just, exclusively, alone: He has a face that only a mother could love. They have been here only twice. She gets her own way only because she has a tantrum if anyone crosses her. Harry was correct in one respect only. 3 merely, simply, barely, at best, at worst, at most, just, purely, not or no more than, not or no greater than: She is only seventeen. I received your note only today. Don't get excited, it's only a small present. --conj. 4 but, however, on the other hand, on the contrary, contrariwise: The flowers are lovely, only they have no scent.
OPEN|0|adj. 1 ajar, gaping, agape, unfastened, unlocked, unbarred, unbolted, unlatched, unclosed: Come on in - the door is open. 2 yawning, agape, uncovered, revealed, unsealed, exposed, bare: Her uncle escaped by hiding for three nights in an open grave. 3 unwrapped, unsealed, unfastened: The package was open and the contents gone. 4 free, accessible, public, available; obtainable; unrestricted, unobstructed, unencumbered or unincumbered, unimpeded, unhindered, unhampered, unregulated, unconditional, unqualified: The parks are open to all. We were allowed open access to the library stacks. 5 unprotected, unenclosed, unsheltered, bare; uncovered, exposed: They spent a week in an open boat before being rescued. The roof can be retracted, leaving the interior completely open to the sky. 6 unsettled, unagreed, unsigned, unsealed, unclinched, unestablished, unconcluded, undecided, pending: As far as I am concerned, the deal is open till the contract is signed. 7 undecided, unsettled, unresolved, debatable, arguable, problematic, moot, US up in the air: Whether they should get married is a question that will remain open until he returns from abroad. 8 unscheduled, unbooked, unspoken for, unreserved, uncommitted, free, unpromised: The doctor has an hour open at noon on Friday. 9 clear, unobstructed, wide open, uncluttered, roomy, spacious, extensive, expansive; treeless, uncrowded, unfenced, unenclosed; ice-free, navigable, unblocked, passable: We travelled through open country for days. In the spring the shipping lanes will again be open. 10 available, unfilled, vacant, untaken: There are not many jobs open in this part of the country. 11 receptive, open-minded, flexible, amenable, persuasible or persuadable, pliant, willing, responsive: The management is open to suggestions for improving its products and services. 12 exposed, public, well-known, widely known, unconcealed: That they are living together is an open secret. 13 evident, obvious, conspicuous, manifest, clear, unconc...
OPUS|0|n. work, composition, production, oeuvre, creation; magnum opus: Her most important opus will be performed at the Albert Hall next week.
ORAL|0|adj. spoken, said, verbal, uttered, voiced, vocal, vocalized, enunciated, pronounced, articulated, word-of-mouth, viva voce: Tomorrow James must make an oral presentation of his plan to the entire staff.
ORGY|0|n. 1 bacchanalia, bacchanal, Saturnalia, Dionysia, debauch, carousal, carouse, spree, revel, party, Colloq binge, bender, drunk, bust, Slang jag, US and Canadian toot, tear: The journalist represented the earl's party as a wild orgy. 2 overindulgence, splurge, spree, fling, Slang US bender: Trying to lift himself out of depression, Roger went on a spending orgy.
OUTR|0|adj. unconventional, unusual, extravagant, bizarre, weird, strange, odd, peculiar, grotesque, outlandish, freakish, out-of-the-way: The attention of the media was turned upon the singer's outr÷ behaviour on stage.
OVAL|0|adj. egg-shaped, ovoid, ovate, oviform, obovoid, obovate; elliptical, ellipsoid(al): His mother's picture hung in an oval frame over the mantel.
OVER|0|prep. 1 above, on, upon, on top of, atop (of): She spread a tarpaulin over the boat to protect it. 2 more than, greater than, upwards or upward of, in excess of, (over and) above, (over and) beyond; exceeding: Of the 2000 people questioned in our survey, over half said they think prunes are funny. The thieves took over ø50,000-worth of paintings. 3 across, to or from or on the other side of; beyond: The children crossed over the river to play in the woods on the other side. 4 for, during, in or over or during the course of, through, throughout: Over the next week she will be working in the Paris office. 5 (all) through, throughout, (all) about, all over: We travelled over the entire country in the course of our holiday. Have you gone over the manuscript I left with you? --adj. 6 done (with), finished, terminated, concluded, ended, past, settled, closed, at an end, over with: I'm afraid it's all over between us, Carrie. --adv. 7 to, onto, past, beyond, across: This room looks out over the sea. 8 remaining, as a remainder, as surplus, outstanding: When we finished eating, there wasn't much left over. 9 (once) again, once more, one more time: This pot will have to be cleaned over again. 10 down, to the ground or floor: You almost knocked over the lamp.
PACE|0|n. 1 step, stride: Please walk forward two paces. 2 rate (of speed), tempo, speed, velocity, Colloq clip: We were proceeding at a pace of five miles per hour. --v. 3 walk, stride, tread; traverse: Alistair paced up and down nervously, waiting for word from the surgeon. 4 measure, gauge or gage, judge, rate, estimate, determine, reckon, figure, compute: I was trying to pace myself to conserve some energy for a sprint finish.
PACK|0|n. 1 parcel, package, packet, bundle, bale, backpack, knapsack, rucksack, haversack, kitbag, kit, duffle or duffel bag: The stranger hoisted his pack onto his shoulder and loped off. 2 load, lot, bunch, multitude, heap, pile, accumulation, mass, amassment, mess, barrel, peck: She told the jury a pack of lies. 3 group, collection, assembly, assemblage, congregation, gathering, crowd, number, throng, horde, mass, crew, gang, body, lots, loads, band, company, party, set, flock, herd, drove, mob, swarm, bevy, covey, circle, coterie, clique: A huge pack of people were waiting at the stage door for the star to emerge. 4 deck: We ought to have two packs of cards for bridge. --v. 5 Often, pack in or into. package, bale, bundle, compact, crowd, cram, jam, fill, stuff, squeeze, ram, press, wedge, tamp: They packed us into the train like sardines. I packed as much as I could into the short time I had left. 6 pack it in. stop, cease, end, finish, quit, wind up, terminate, give up, call it a day, Colloq chuck: Edward finally packed it in because they were giving him too much trouble. 7 pack off. dismiss, send off or away, bundle off or out, hustle off or out or away, get rid of, drive off or away, order off or away or out, send (someone) about his or her business: At the beginning of the war, Sally's mother packed her off to America to stay with her aunt. 8 pack up. a get or gather together, put away, store: Pack up your troubles in your old kit bag and smile, smile, smile. b quit, stop, break down, fail, give out, stall, die, give up the ghost, Colloq conk out, have had it: After three days crossing the desert, the engine finally packed up.
PACT|0|n. agreement, treaty, bargain, alliance, contract, compact, concord, covenant, concordat, entente, understanding, arrangement, deal: The companies entered into an illegal pact not to compete in the same markets.
PAGE|0|n. 1 leaf, folio, side, sheet, verso or recto: On which page does the index begin? 2 episode, phase, period, time, stage, point, era, epoch, age, chapter: The early 1940s were among the darkest pages in Britain's history. --v. 3 paginate, folio, number: Roman numerals were used in paging the preface to the book.
PAIN|0|n. 1 hurt, suffering, discomfort, soreness, ache, aching, pang, spasm, smarting, cramp: I feel the pain in my back from lifting that box. 2 anguish, agony, affliction, distress, grief, woe, suffering, misery, travail, wretchedness, despair, torment, tribulation, trial, torture, dolour, discomposure, ordeal, disquiet: No one who has not experienced it can imagine the pain of losing a child. 3 irritation, vexation, annoyance, bother, nuisance, pest, Colloq pain in the neck, headache, drag, bore, Taboo slang pain in the Brit arse or US ass: What a pain it is that you have forgotten your keys again! David can really be a pain when he goes on about the book he's writing. 4 pains. effort, trouble, exertion, toil, labour: She went to great pains to make our stay comfortable. --v. 5 hurt, distress, grieve, wound, injure; trouble, depress, sadden, sorrow, cut to the quick: It pained us to learn of Mrs McArthur's illness.
PAIR|0|n. 1 couple, twosome, two of a kind, set of two, matched set, duo, dyad, twins, double, doublet; brace, span, yoke, team, tandem: A pair of silver candelabra disappeared during the party. --v. 2 match (up), mate, pair off or up, team (up), put together, partner, twin, double, join, unite, yoke; wed, marry, join in wedlock or in holy matrimony: Pair these gloves for me, would you? Husbands may not pair off with wives for the next dance.
PALE|0|adj. 1 colourless, white, wan, sallow, waxen, livid, ashen, ashy, pallid, bloodless, whitish, pasty, whey-faced, washed out, anaemic, blanched, drained, ghostly, ghastly, peaky or peakish, peaked, cadaverous: If you had been through an ordeal like that, you'd look pale, too. 2 faint, light, dim, washed out, pastel: She was wearing a pale green evening gown tonight. 3 feeble, weak, flimsy, meagre, enfeebled, ineffective, ineffectual, puny, insignificant, paltry, lame, poor, inadequate, half-hearted, tame, spiritless, whey-faced, empty, sterile, lifeless, uninspired, anaemic, Colloq half-baked: The sequel was a pale imitation of the original film. --v. 4 blanch, blench, dim, whiten: He paled when they told him of the car crash. 5 diminish, lessen, fade (away), decrease, abate: The works of most modern writers pale in comparison with those of the Elizabethans.
PALL|0|n. 1 shroud, covering, mantle, cloth, veil: A black velvet pall covered the coffin. 2 gloomy or melancholy or sombre or grave or depressing air or mood or atmosphere; damper, cold water, Colloq wet blanket: The recently uncovered scandals have cast a pall over his successes in office.
PANE|0|n. panel, sheet, glass, window-pane, light, quarrel, bull's-eye: Ring up the glazier and have that pane replaced in the door.
PANG|0|n. 1 pain, stab, ache, pinch, twinge, stitch, spasm: I felt a sharp pang of hunger. 2 qualm, hesitation, scruple, misgiving, remorse, regret, contrition, contriteness, self-reproach, mortification, guilt, anguish, discomfort, malaise: Does Claire feel the slightest pangs for treating him badly?
PANT|0|v. 1 gasp, huff (and puff), blow, heave, breathe hard, wheeze: He was panting when he came into the room, having run up the stairs. 2 Usually, pant for or after. crave, hanker after, hunger or thirst for or after, yearn for, ache for, want, desire, covet, wish for, long or pine or sigh for, have one's heart set on, die for, be dying for, Colloq have a yen for, give one's eye-teeth or right arm for: Margery was the girl that all the boys panted after when we were ten.
PARE|0|v. 1 trim, peel, skin, shave (off), shuck; decorticate, excoriate: Pare the apples and then grate them coarsely. 2 Often, pare down. reduce, diminish, decrease, cut (back or down), curtail, slash (back), lower, lessen: Since his illness, Bob has pared down his time at the office. We'll have to pare our prices to stay competitive in the present climate.
PART|0|n. 1 piece, portion, division, allotment, share, percentage, participation, interest; parcel, fragment, scrap, shard; some: I bought a part of the company when it was available. I want no part of the deal now. 2 portion, component, factor, constituent, element, ingredient: A part of her problem is that she doesn't speak Japanese. 3 role, function, duty, responsibility, share; say, voice, influence, participation, involvement, business: Every man must do his part. Don't thank me! I had no part in your getting the contract. 4 role, character: He plays the part of Tweedledum in the school play. 5 side, interest, cause, behalf, faction, party: Which part did you support in the argument? No explanation has been offered on either part. 6 neighbourhood, quarter, section, district, region, area, corner, vicinity, vicinage, Colloq neck of the woods: I come from the same part of the country as you. 7 piece, portion, segment, section; department, division, component, unit: Which part of the turkey do you prefer? In which part of the company do you work? 8 for the most part. mostly, generally, usually, mainly, in the main, by and large, on the whole, chiefly, principally, essentially, for all practical purposes, to all intents and purposes, in most cases or instances: The shops are for the most part closed on Sunday. 9 in part. partly, partially, to some extent or degree, in some measure, relatively, comparatively, somewhat: He is himself in part responsible for the present state of affairs. 10 on the part of (someone) or on (someone's or one's) part. by, on or US also in behalf of, (as) for, as regards, as far as (someone) is concerned, in the name of, for the sake of, in support of: Tyrannical acts on the part of the king were not condoned. For my part, I want nothing to do with it. 11 take (a) part (in). participate (in), join (in), be (a) party to, play a part or role (in), be involved (in or with), associate oneself (with), have or take a hand in, partake (of), contribute ...
PASS|0|v. 1 Often, pass by. proceed or move past, go by or past: She passed me in the street. I didn't recognize her till she had passed. We met like ships that pass in the night. 2 proceed, move (onwards), go (ahead), progress, extend, lie, run, flow, fly, roll, course, stream, drift, sweep: A flock of geese passed overhead. 3 let pass, let go (by), overlook, disregard, ignore, pay no heed, omit, skip: I think I'll pass on making a decision till the proper time comes. 4 qualify (in), pass muster (in), get or come through, succeed: Deirdre didn't believe she would pass chemistry, but pass she did. 5 spend, devote, use (up), expend, employ, occupy, fill, while away, take (up); dissipate, waste, fritter away, kill: He passed his time on Devil's Island planning ways to escape. 6 surpass, exceed, outdo, transcend, go beyond, overshoot, outstrip, outrun, surmount, outdistance: She passed her own expectations in winning the scholarship. How Alan ever got a degree passes all comprehension. 7 allow, tolerate, permit, approve, sanction, accept, authorize, endorse, carry, agree to, confirm: The customs inspectors passed my luggage without question. The bill passed the committee and came up for voting. 8 give, hand round or along or over, transfer, pass on or over, deliver, convey, Sports US hand off, Colloq toss, throw, reach: Please pass the salt. The sweeper passed the ball back to the goalkeeper. 9 utter, express, issue, declare, pronounce, deliver, set forth, offer: Who is she to pass judgement on abstract paintings? 10 go away, disappear, vanish, evaporate, fade away, melt away, evanesce, cease (to exist), (come to an) end, die out, go by the board, terminate, Literary evanish, Colloq blow over: For an instant I was gripped by a horrible fear, but the feeling passed. 11 go (by), expire, elapse; slip by or away, fly; crawl, creep, drag: Weeks have passed since we last met. Time passes quickly when you're having fun. 12 evacuate, void, eliminate, excrete, defecate, urinate: The t...
PAST|0|adj. 1 over, done, finished, (over and) done with, gone (and forgotten), dead (and buried or gone), defunct: The day of the horse and carriage is past. 2 late, former, one-time, sometime, previous, prior, erstwhile, quondam, whilom; last, recent: Past owners of the house had no idea that this treasure was buried in the basement. --adv. 3 on, (close) by, nearby: I was standing here when he ran past. 4 ago, before, heretofore, since: The previous owners moved out two years past. --n. 5 history, background, life, lifetime, existence, career, lifestyle, biography: She reveals all about her past in her new book. 6 days or years or times gone by, days of yore, old times, olden times or days, former times, (good) old days, days of old, days beyond recall: In the past, life proceeded at a more leisurely pace.
PATH|0|n. 1 footpath, pathway, tow-path, track, trail, walk, walkway, Brit footway: A little kitten was sitting on the garden path. 2 way, course, track, route, road; orbit, trajectory, circuit: She had to overcome many obstacles in her path to the directorship. The path of the missile will take it outside the atmosphere. 3 course, approach, channel, direction, procedure, process, way, avenue, means, method, technique, strategy, scheme, plan, Colloq US game plan, scenario: What path would you follow to accomplish your ends?
PAVE|0|v. 1 macadamize, tarmac, asphalt, tile, flag, concrete, cover, surface: Europeans thought that the streets of America were paved with gold. 2 pave the way for or to. prepare or smooth the way for, open the door for, make easy or easier for; facilitate, ease: If I talk to him first, perhaps I can pave the way for you to make your proposal.
PEAK|0|n. 1 top, pinnacle, crest, ridge, tor, mountain top, summit, mountain, eminence, elevation, hill: We were just able to make out the snow-capped peaks in the distance. 2 top, tip, tiptop, apex, acme, culmination, apogee, zenith, high point, crown, extreme, utmost, uttermost, perfection, ne plus ultra, consummation, climax: Irene has brought the office to a peak of efficiency. 3 visor, brim, US bill, nib: The peak of the fisherman's cap serves as an eyeshade. --v. 4 rise, crest, culminate, (reach a) climax, top (out): Prices peaked during the Christmas shopping season.
PEAL|0|n. 1 ringing, ring, carillon, chime, chiming, toll, tolling, clang, clangour, tintinnabulation, clamour, reverberation; knell; clap, crash, roar, rumble, thunder: The constant peal of the bells nearly drove him mad. The doleful peal rang out for yet another fisherman lost at sea. A resounding peal of thunder shook the house. --v. 2 ring, toll, chime, clang, tintinnabulate, reverberate, resonate, resound; knell; boom, crash, roar, roll, rumble, thunder: The cowbells pealed plaintively, reminding me of my youth in the Alps. Lightning flashed, and the echoing thunder pealed through the valley.
PEEK|0|v. 1 peer, peep, glimpse, look, squint (at), squinny (at), Scots keek, Colloq take or have a gander (at), Brit take a dekko (at): A small boy peeked out from under the blanket. --n. 2 look, glimpse, peep, glance, Scots keek, Colloq gander, look-see: I've had a peek at what Father hid in the cupboard.
PEEL|0|v. 1 Sometimes, peel off. skin, strip (off), pare, flay, flake off, descale, decorticate; shuck, hull, bark, scale; desquamate: Beulah, peel me a grape. 2 strip, undress, disrobe; do a striptease: In the last act, everyone peels to the bare skin. 3 peel off. take off or doff, strip off: I peeled off my coat and dived into the canal to save her. --n. 4 skin, rind, coating, peeling: Don't you like candied orange peel?
PEEP|0|v. 1 chirp, tweet, cheep, squeak, twitter, pipe, chirrup: The birds peeped excitedly when they saw the cat. --n. 2 chirp, tweet, cheep, squeak, twitter, pipe, chirrup, chirr or chirre or churr: The night was filled with the peep of the frogs at the pond. 3 sound, complaint, outcry, protest, protestation, grumble, murmur: The students didn't let out a peep when ordered to remain after class.
PEER|0|n. 1 noble, nobleman or noblewoman, lord or lady, aristocrat; duke or duchess, marquess or marchioness, earl or countess, viscount or viscountess, baron or baroness: As a peer of the realm, she had certain rights. 2 equal, coequal, compeer, like, match, confrëre, associate, colleague: Under law, he is entitled to trial by a jury of his peers.
PELT|0|v. 1 bombard, shower, bomb, pepper, strafe, batter, shell, assail, assault, attack, US pummel or pommel, belabour, pound, Old-fashioned lay about, Slang US clobber, wallop, paste, work over: The hooligans pelted the crowd with sticks and stones. 2 Often, pelt down. beat, dash, pound, hit; come down, teem, pour, Colloq rain cats and dogs, bucket down, US rain pitchforks: The rain came pelting down just as we were ready to go out. 3 pelt along or over. hurry, rush, run, dash, shoot, scoot, scurry: The constables pelted along after the escaping thief. --n. 4 stroke, blow, whack, hit, smack, slap, thwack, bang, thump, Colloq wallop, belt: Chris received a pelt on the head from a rock.
PERK|0|n. See perquisite, below.
PERT|0|adj. 1 forward, brash, brazen, cheeky, insolent, impertinent, flippant, saucy, bold, presumptuous, impudent, disrespectful, audacious, rude, impolite, uncivil, ill-mannered, unmannerly, Archaic malapert, Colloq fresh, flip, out of line, brassy, big-mouthed, wise-guy, Slang Brit smart-arsed, US smart-ass(ed), wise-ass(ed): He's a clever child, but I don't like his pert manner. 2 lively, jaunty, ebullient, vivacious, enthusiastic, bouncy, sprightly, brisk, cheerful, jolly, bright, perky, animated, nimble: She is usually quite pert in the morning, becoming depressed as the day wears on.
PEST|0|n. nuisance, annoyance, nag, irritant, bother, gadfly, bane, trial, heckler, vexation, curse, thorn in one's flesh, Colloq pain (in the neck), Slang US (Yiddish) nudge or noodge or nudzh, nudnik, Taboo slang pain in the Brit arse or US ass: That man is such a pest, I wish he'd leave me alone.
PICK|0|v. 1 Often, pick out. select, choose, cull, sort out, hand-pick, single out, opt for, fix or decide upon or on, elect, settle upon or on, screen (out), sift (out): Melanie was picked to succeed Hubert as president. 2 pluck, gather, collect, harvest, bring or take in, garner: Scores of extra workers were brought in to pick apples. 3 provoke, foment, incite, start, initiate, work or stir up: He tried to pick an argument with me about who is taller. 4 pick at. a criticize, carp at, find fault with, cavil (at or about), quibble (at or about), pick on, nag (at), niggle (at), harass, pester, annoy, irritate, bother: Stop picking at your brother! b nibble (at), peck at: We can't get him to eat a thing, he just picks at his food. 5 pick off. shoot (down), kill: We picked them off one by one as they emerged from the trench. 6 pick on. bully, ride, intimidate, abuse, browbeat, badger, harry, hector, harass, tease, taunt, needle, torment: Robert must learn not to pick on the smaller boys. 7 pick out. a See 1, above. b discern, distinguish, tell apart, make out, recognize, separate, discriminate: I was able to pick out a distant rider, approaching swiftly. From amongst the forest sounds she picked out the song of the nightingale. 8 pick up. a raise (up), lift (up), heft, hoist, take up: The stone is too heavy to pick up. Please pick up that piece of paper. b gather, collect, glean, take up: I wish you would pick up your clothes. c tidy (up), neaten, straighten up or out, clean (up): She refuses to continue to pick up after him. d acquire, learn, become acquainted with; master; Colloq get the hang of: We picked up a little Spanish on our holiday. e acquire, find, come by, get hold of, obtain; buy, purchase, get: Basil picked up a few bad habits in the army. Let's pick up a bottle of wine on the way. f improve, get better, gain, make headway, recover, perk up, rally, recoup, (make) progress, move ahead, increase, Colloq make a comeback: Business usually picks up before Christmas....
PIER|0|n. 1 wharf, landing (stage or place), jetty, quay, floating dock, Technically inaccurate dock: The ship is tied up at the pier. 2 pile, piling, post, upright, column, support, buttress: Owing to lack of maintenance, the piers supporting the building have crumbled.
PILE|0|n. 1 heap, mound, stack, accumulation, stockpile, mass, supply, deposit, collection, assemblage, batch, hoard, aggregation, congeries, conglomeration, assortment, agglomeration, concentration, amassment: A huge pile of gravel was delivered today for the builders. 2 money, fortune, wealth, holdings, Colloq bundle, loot, mint, Slang packet, tidy sum, US bankroll, roll, wad: She made her pile selling arms to terrorists. 3 Usually, piles. abundance, over-abundance, superabundance, plenty, great deal, quantity, ocean(s), lot(s), stack(s), plethora, Colloq oodles, ton(s), bag(s), heap(s), bundle(s): He made piles of money in the black market. 4 See pier, 2, above. --v. 5 Often, pile up. stack (up), heap (up), mound, accumulate, stockpile, amass, collect, assemble, hoard, aggregate, cumulate: Please pile the cartons in the corner. 6 pile in or into. enter, get in or into, crowd in or into, pack in or into, flood in or into, jam in or into, crush in or into, Colloq jump in or into: All of us piled into my car to go to the cinema. 7 pile it on. exaggerate: Ronnie was really piling it on about how much his new job pays. 8 pile on or onto. a get in or into or on or onto, crowd on or onto, jump on or onto: We piled on the train after the game. They piled onto the hay wagon for a ride home. b attack, assault, jump on, overwhelm: They all piled on me and I had to give up. 9 pile out. leave, get out (of) or down (from), exit: When we arrived, we all piled out of the bus. Hordes of people piled out of the theatre. 10 pile up. accumulate, amass, collect: The rubbish kept piling up during the strike.
PILL|0|n. 1 tablet, capsule, bolus, pellet, pilule; medicine, medication, medicament, drug, pharmaceutical, remedy, cure; cough drop, pastille, lozenge, troche: Doctor, can't you give me some kind of pill for this headache? 2 nuisance, bore, pest, Colloq pain (in the neck), crank, drag: I don't understand what she sees in Leonard - he's such a pill.
PIMP|0|n. 1 procurer, panderer or pander, White slaver, whoremonger, Slang US hustler: The police rounded up the pimps and prostitutes for questioning. --v. 2 procure, pander, solicit, Slang US hustle: He was well known as having pimped for three generations of the nobility.
PINK|0|n. 1 in the pink. at one's best, healthy, hearty, in the best of health, in top form, in good shape, Colloq US up: I saw Rob the other day, and he's in the pink. --adj. 2 rosy, rose, rose-coloured, pinkish, flesh-colour(ed), salmon(-colour(ed)): The designer suggests pink curtains for the bedroom.
PIPE|0|n. 1 pipeline, tube, duct, hose, line, main, conduit, passage, conveyor, channel: The pipes are inspected regularly for corrosion. 2 briar, meerschaum, corn-cob, calabash, clay pipe, water-pipe, hookah, narghile, chibouk or chibouque, peace-pipe or pipe of peace or calumet, Colloq Irish briar, Brit hubble-bubble, US bong: He slowly tamped down the tobacco in his pipe, then lit it. 3 pan-pipe, whistle, boatswain's pipe, tooter, horn, wind, wind instrument, woodwind, brass: They play the pipes in the London Symphony. --v. 4 tootle, tweet, skirl, warble, whistle, peep, cheep: One was piping away on a flute, the other was dancing a jig. 5 transmit, deliver, channel, conduct, convey, supply: The gas is piped directly into our homes. 6 US look at, notice, spot, note, look at, Colloq get a load of: Pipe the guy trying to climb up the outside of that building. 7 pipe down. become quieter, quieten down, make less noise, hush (up), shush (up), whisper, Colloq belt up, shut up: I wish they'd pipe down, I can't sleep. 8 pipe up. speak (up), say, raise one's voice, make oneself heard, offer, volunteer: Sally piped up with the correct answer from the back of the classroom.
PITH|0|n. 1 core, heart, kernel, nucleus, crux, gist, focus, focal point, essence, meat, marrow, nub, point, spirit, substance, quintessence: As usual, Randolph came immediately to the pith of the argument. 2 weight, burden, gravamen, gravity, force, moment, import, importance, significance, substance, depth, matter: I have something of great pith to tell you about.
PITY|0|n. 1 sympathy, commiseration, sorrow, condolence, compassion, tenderness, Archaic ruth: I really feel pity for Betty, being married to such a brute. 2 (crying or damned) shame, sad thing, disgrace, misfortune, sin, sacrilege, Colloq crime: It's a pity that no one can do anything. --v. 3 sympathize, feel for, commiserate with, feel sorry for, feel or have compassion or tenderness for, bleed for, weep for: I pity any mother whose son goes off to war.
PLAN|0|n. 1 design, layout, blueprint, scheme, method, procedure, system, arrangement, programme, project, formula, pattern, Colloq script, scenario: The plan called for monthly progress meetings. The best laid plans of mice and men gang aft agley. 2 drawing, sketch, design, layout, blueprint, chart, map, diagram, representation: This plan shows where the furniture will be placed. --v. 3 lay out or down, design, arrange, devise, outline, organize, plot, map out, delineate, develop: She has been invited to plan the new shopping mall. 4 intend, expect, envisage, envision, foresee, aim, contemplate, propose: Were you planning to go to the cinema tonight?
PLAY|0|v. 1 amuse oneself, frolic, frisk, cavort, gambol, caper, sport, have fun, have a good time, enjoy oneself, disport (oneself), carouse: Ken's mother won't let him go out and play. 2 participate (in), take part (in), join (in), be occupied (in or with); engage in, contend in, take up, take part in, occupy oneself in or with, undertake: He was invited for a game of poker, but he refused to play. I understand that you play bridge. 3 engage, contend with, compete with or against, challenge, vie with, pit oneself against, take on, rival: The stranger played me at snooker, and I lost three games out of three. 4 portray, depict, perform, act or take the role or part of, act: In the new production of Othello she plays Desdemona. 5 perform (upon or on); put on: Play 'Misty' for me. She plays the piccolo very well. Could you play that Caruso record? 6 operate: I wish they wouldn't play their hi-fi so loud. 7 gamble, bet, wager, stake, place, put: He played his last chip on number 14. 8 play along. a Often, play along with. cooperate, participate, go along (with), do or play one's part, be a party to: I agreed to play along with her charade. b manipulate, jolly along: She played him along till he bought her a car. 9 play around. a fool around, tease, Colloq monkey about or around, horse around or about: Stop playing around and get to work. b dally, flirt, be unfaithful; philander, womanize; Colloq fool around, run around, sleep around, play the field: She found out about his playing around and filed for divorce. 10 play at. pretend, make believe, fake, feign, simulate, affect: She's merely playing at enjoying skiing to please you. 11 play ball. cooperate, agree, work together, work hand in glove, play along: They want him to smuggle diamonds, but he won't play ball. 12 play by ear. improvise, extemporize, ad lib , Colloq wing it: She can't read music and just plays by ear. With no definite plan of action, I'll just play it by ear. 13 play down. belittle, minimize, diminish, di...
PLEA|0|n. 1 request, entreaty, appeal, petition, supplication, suit, cry, solicitation: Teenagers' mischievous behaviour is an earnest plea for attention. 2 answer, defence, argument: She entered a plea of 'not guilty' to the charge. 3 excuse, reason, explanation, justification; pretext: His plea was that he had not received the bill and therefore couldn't pay it.
PLOD|0|v. 1 Often, plod along. trudge (along), tramp, slog, drag, tread, lumber, labour, Colloq stomp, galumph: We plodded wearily up the road carrying our heavy packs. 2 Often, plod along or away. labour, work, drudge, toil, moil, slave (away), grind (away or along), grub (on or along), plug (along or away), Brit peg away (at) or along: Plodding through the compilation of the Oxford Thesaurus, he was only halfway through the letter P.
PLOT|0|n. 1 scheme, plan, intrigue, machination, cabal; conspiracy: The plot to blow up the Houses of Parliament was uncovered at a late stage. 2 story (line), chain of events, theme, outline, scenario, thread, skeleton: Most operas have weak plots, but the music can be sublime. --v. 3 scheme, plan, intrigue, machinate, cabal, collude, conspire, hatch, devise, design, arrange, organize, concoct, dream up, conceive, Colloq cook up: Martin's wife had been plotting to murder him since their wedding night. 4 draw, plan, diagram, lay down, outline, calculate, compute, figure, chart, map (out), find, determine, depict, show: The navigator plotted our position as being in the Strait of Malacca.
PLUG|0|n. 1 stopper, stopple, bung, cork: If you pull the plug out, the water will run out. 2 chew, twist, quid, wad, pigtail, cavendish: As they forbade smoking, he would take snuff or chew a plug of tobacco. 3 publicity, mention, promotion, recommendation, puff, blurb, PR; advertisement, Colloq advert, hype: His book was given a plug on yesterday's evening news. --v. 4 Often, plug up. stop (up), close (up or off), seal (off or up), cork, stopper, bung, block, jam, stuff, clog, obstruct, dam (up): A piece of soap has plugged the drain. 5 publicize, mention, promote, push, advertise, puff, commend, Colloq boost, beat the drum for: It wasn't right to plug her brother's company in her article on double glazing. 6 See plod, 2, above.
PLUM|0|n. find, catch, coup, prize, treasure; bonus, cream: Harvey's landed a plum job as overseas buyer.
PLUS|0|prep. 1 and, added to, increased by, with the addition of, with an increment of, (coupled) with, together with: Two plus three equals five. Your initial deposit plus accumulated interest will make a substantial sum. --adj. 2 added, additional, supplementary, extra: One must take into account the plus value of the good publicity. --n. 3 addition, bonus, extra, gain, benefit, asset, advantage, profit, return: Improvements constitute a big plus in evaluating the building.
POEM|0|n. verse, lyric, rhyme or archaic rime, song, ode, rhapsody, jingle, ditty: The anthology contains poems by politicians.
POET|0|n. poetess, versifier, metrist, lyricist or lyrist, versemaker, sonneteer, elegist, bard, minstrel; rhymester or rimester or rhymer or rimer, poetaster: A widely published poet, Constance is often invited to give readings.
POKE|0|v. 1 jab, stick, prod, dig, goad, stab, thrust, push, elbow, nudge, jog, jostle, butt, shove: Be careful not to poke someone in the eye with your umbrella. He tells a joke, then pokes me in the ribs to make sure I've got it. 2 punch, hit, strike, box, cuff, smite, smack: I made a suggestive remark and she poked me in the jaw. 3 pry, nose (about or around), stick one's nose into, intrude, dig, probe, investigate; meddle, interfere, butt in, tamper; Colloq snoop: I wish they would stop poking into my affairs. 4 poke fun (at). tease, ridicule, mock, make fun of, jeer (at), chaff, taunt, twit, make sport of, needle, Colloq kid, rib, Brit send up, take the mickey out of: People who don't understand something often poke fun at it. Stop poking fun at my hat. --n. 5 jab, prod, dig, stab, thrust, push, elbow, finger, nudge, jog, jostle, butt, shove: Every time Rodney wants to emphasize a point, he gives you a poke. 6 punch, hit, box, jab, cuff, smack, blow: If anyone says anything bad about you, I'll give him a poke in the nose.
POLE|0|n. rod, stick, staff, spar, shaft, mast, standard, upright; flag-pole, flagstaff, jackstaff; beanpole, hop-pole: We had to use a long pole to get the kite down from the tree.
POLL|0|n. 1 voting, vote, returns, tally, figures: The poll shows that the incumbents are not as secure as they thought. 2 opinion poll, survey, canvass, census, ballot, count: A poll of home-owners shows that most would like to own washing machines. --v. 3 sample, survey, question, canvass, ballot, ask, interview; count, enumerate, tally, register, record: We polled teenagers to determine their reaction to a youth centre; those in favour polled 73 per cent. 4 receive, get, win, register, tally: Cavendish polled more than 60 per cent of the votes cast.
POMP|0|n. glory, grandeur, magnificence, splendour, show, extravaganza, pageantry, ceremony, spectacle, brilliance, ceremoniousness: The Chinese court's pomp and display of wealth had never before been seen by a westerner.
POOL|0|n. 1 pond, lake, tarn, mere, lagoon; swimming-pool, leisure pool, wading pool, Brit paddling pool, US wading pool, Formal natatorium: We found an icy mountain pool where we went for a swim. 2 collection, fund(s), purse, stakes, reserve(s), bank, Colloq pot, jackpot, kitty: So far we have too little money in the pool for an office party at Christmas. 3 syndicate, trust, group, consortium, cartel, combine: The object of the pool was the private regulation of market prices, which is illegal. --v. 4 accumulate, collect, gather, combine, merge, consolidate, amalgamate, league, bring or come or band or get together, team (up) with: We would do better if we pooled our resources.
POOR|0|adj. 1 needy, destitute, indigent, in want, in need, penniless, poverty-stricken, impoverished, badly off, necessitous, poor as a church-mouse, straitened, pinched, in reduced circumstances, impecunious, financially embarrassed, down and out, out of pocket, ruined, insolvent, bankrupt, Colloq broke, hard up, on one's uppers, short, US wiped out, Brit in Queer Street, Slang Brit skint: They were poor and didn't know where their next meal was coming from. 2 low, bad, skimpy, meagre, scant, scanty, inadequate, deficient, insufficient, sparse: How can a family of five survive on such a poor salary? These days, 3 per cent would be considered a poor return on investment. 3 barren, unproductive, unfruitful, fruitless, infertile, sterile; depleted, exhausted, impoverished: This is poor soil, and no amount of cultivation is likely to make it productive. 4 bad, awful, inadequate, unsatisfactory, unacceptable, bumbling, inefficient, amateurish, unprofessional, inferior, second-rate, third-rate, low-grade, shabby, shoddy, mediocre, defective, faulty, flawed, substandard, sorry, not up to par or snuff, slipshod, below or under par, Colloq rotten, lousy: They did a poor job repairing my car. Her latest recital was pretty poor. 5 insignificant, slight, paltry, inconsequential, mean, modest, trivial, trifling: They made only a poor attempt to correct the problem. 6 unfortunate, unlucky, pathetic, luckless, pitiful, pitiable, ill-fated, miserable, wretched, ill-starred, star-crossed, jinxed, hapless: The poor chap lost his entire family in the disaster. 7 bad, ill: Aunt Theresa has been in poor health lately.
PORE|0|v. pore over. study, examine, scrutinize, peruse, read, go over, Colloq con: Hamilton sits in the library, day after day, poring over books of forgotten lore.
PORT|0|n. harbour, haven, seaport; mooring, anchorage; refuge: We were bound east for the port of Cardiff.
POSE|0|v. 1 sit, model; position, place, arrange, set (up), put: Would you let your husband or wife pose in the nude? She posed the model standing, looking out of the window. 2 Usually, pose as. portray, act or play (the part or role of), take the part or role of, represent, impersonate, be disguised as, masquerade as, pretend or profess to be, pass (oneself off) as, pass for, imitate, mimic; attitudinize, posture, put on airs, Colloq show off: She posed as an art expert from Switzerland. She thinks him a rou÷, but he's only posing. 3 set, put, ask, submit, broach, posit, advance, present, predicate, postulate: The interviewer posed some questions that were quite embarrassing. --n. 4 position, attitude, posture, stance: Her profile is not shown to best advantage in that pose. 5 affectation, act, pretence, attitudinizing, affectedness, display, faúade, show, ostentation: His interest in art is just a pose to impress her.
POSH|0|adj. (de) luxe, luxurious, elegant, sumptuous, lavish, opulent, rich, royal, regal, luxury, grand, fashionable, Colloq swank(y), classy, ritzy, Slang snazzy: You ought to see what a posh office my son has!
POST|0|n. 1 pole, stake, upright, column, pillar, pale, picket, shaft, standard, newel, pier, pylon, pile, piling, strut, shore, stanchion, leg, prop, stay, support, brace: A huge central post held up the roof. --v. 2 advertise, announce, proclaim, publish, circulate, propagate, promulgate; put or pin or tack or stick or hang up, affix: The notice of the meeting has been posted for all to see. n. 1 postal service, mail; delivery; collection: I am expecting an important letter in the post. It hasn't come in the first post. --v. 2 send, dispatch or despatch, transmit, Chiefly US and Canadian mail: I posted your cheque this morning. 3 record, enter, register, list: We post the daily receipts in this ledger. 4 keep (someone) posted. inform, advise, brief, notify, Colloq fill (someone) in on: Our observers have kept me posted as to your whereabouts every step of the way.
POUR|0|v. 1 flow, run, gush, rush, flood, stream, course, spout, discharge, spurt, spew out, cascade: Water was pouring from a crack in the dam. 2 empty, discharge, let out: Pour the boiling water over the tea leaves and let them steep for a few minutes. 3 rain, teem, Colloq come down in buckets or by the bucketful, bucket down, rain cats and dogs, US rain pitchforks: It poured all night. 4 stream, swarm, crowd, throng, teem, emerge, sally forth, issue (forth), go (forth): The show over, people poured into the streets.
POUT|0|v. 1 mope, brood, sulk, make a moue, pull a long face, frown, lour or lower, knit one's brows: Don't pout - I'll buy you an ice-cream. --n. 2 frown, moue, long face: Her pout was occasioned by her father's scolding.
PRAY|0|v. 1 beseech, ask, call upon or on, entreat, implore, request, appeal to, plead (with), beg (for), importune, solicit, petition, supplicate, Rare obsecrate: I pray you to find it in your heart to approve my work. 2 say one's prayers, offer a prayer: We prayed for her safe return.
PREY|0|n. 1 quarry, kill, game, objective, target: The lioness singled out her prey from the herd of zebra. 2 victim, target, objective; dupe, Colloq mark, Slang fall guy, pushover, Brit mug: A public company with huge cash reserves, United Vector seemed easy prey for a take-over bid. --v. 3 prey on or upon. a live off, feed on or upon, eat, consume, devour, kill, destroy, stalk, pursue, hunt, seize: These snakes prey mostly upon other snakes. b victimize, go after, exploit, use, take advantage of, intimidate, bully, cheat, dupe, swindle, gull, trick, snooker, defraud, outwit, outsmart, outfox, hoodwink, Literary cozen, Colloq rook, bamboozle, flimflam: An unscrupulous gang is preying on the elderly, persuading them to invest in non-existent properties. c oppress, weigh on or upon, burden, depress, distress, strain, vex, worry: His wretched condition preyed very much on her mind.
PRIG|0|n. (ultra-)conservative, prude, purist, pedant, school-ma'm, puritan, (Mrs) Grundy, Grundyite, Grundyist, precisionist, precisian, conformist, formalist, Colloq stuffed shirt, stick-in-the-mud, goody-goody: A terrible prig, the headmaster forbade even the slightest hint of slang usage.
PROD|0|v. 1 jab, dig, poke, nudge, elbow: Every time the comedian said something risqu÷, Aunt Flora would giggle and prod me in the ribs. 2 spur, urge, impel, egg on, push, thrust, prompt, rouse, stir, incite, move, motivate, actuate, activate, provoke, encourage, stimulate: My uncle keeps prodding me to continue with my studies. 3 incite, goad, needle, irritate, irk, annoy, pester, harass, hector, badger, plague, nag, hound, carp at, cavil; henpeck: My parents are constantly prodding me to go out and get a job. --n. 4 jab, dig, poke, nudge, elbow, push: I was quite black and blue from those prods I was getting from Aunt Flora. 5 goad, spur; needle, rowel: These days electrified cattle prods are available. 6 stimulus, push, prompt, reminder, signal, cue: Calvin needed that prod to make him finally go home after the party.
PROP|0|v. 1 Often, prop up. support, brace, hold (up), buttress, stay, bolster, uphold, bear, sustain, shore up, keep up: A longer post is needed to prop up this end of the roof. 2 lean, stand, rest: Do you mind if I prop my crutches against the desk while I sit down? --n. 3 support, brace, truss, stay, buttress, mainstay, upright, vertical, shore: Can you use this broomstick as a prop to support the shelf temporarily?
PULL|0|v. 1 draw, haul, drag, lug, tow, trail: Do you think the car is strong enough to pull that load? 2 tug, jerk, yank, wrench, pluck: He suddenly pulled on the door and it opened. 3 Sometimes, pull out or up. pluck (out), withdraw, extract, uproot, pick (up or out), snatch out or up, tear or rip out or up, cull, select, draw out, take out, remove: We pulled out all the weeds and threw them on the compost heap. He has a collection of jokes pulled from his speeches. 4 Often, pull apart. tear or rip (up or apart), rend, pull asunder, wrench (apart), stretch, strain: This fabric is so weak it pulled apart as soon as I touched it. I think I pulled a muscle in my calf. 5 Often, pull in. attract, draw, lure, entice, allure, catch, captivate, fascinate, capture: We need something besides the 'Sale' sign to pull the customers into the shop. 6 pull apart. pull to pieces or shreds, criticize, attack, pick or take apart or to pieces, flay, run down, Colloq put down, pan, knock, devastate, destroy, slate, Slang slam: The critics really pulled apart her new play. 7 pull away. withdraw, draw or drive or go or move away; outrun, outpace, draw ahead of: She pulled away abruptly when he touched her hand. The green car is pulling away from the others. 8 pull back. a withdraw, draw back, back off or away, recoil, shrink (away or back) from, shy, flinch (from), jump, start: The burglar pulled back when he saw the ferocious dog. b withdraw, (beat a) retreat, take flight, flee, turn tail, drop or fall back, back out: We cheered when we saw the enemy troops pulling back. 9 pull down. a demolish, raze, level, destroy, wreck: It takes only hours to pull down a house that it has taken generations to build. b draw, receive, get, be paid, earn: He pulls down much more at his new job. c lower, debase, diminish, reduce, degrade, dishonour, disgrace, discredit, humiliate: When his fortunes declined, he pulled down all his friends with him. 10 pull for. hope or pray for, be enthusiastic for, be suppor...
PULP|0|n. 1 marrow, pith, heart, soft part, flesh: After removing the seeds, add two tablespoonfuls of sugar and mix into the pulp. 2 mush, paste, mash, pap, pomace, mass, Technical triturate: Water is added to the waste paper, which the machines then reduce to a pulp. --v. 3 mash, squash, pulverize, Technical levigate, triturate: The entire print run of the book was pulped after she threatened to sue the publishers. --adj. 4 lurid, sensational, trashy, cheap: What he considers great literature you would call pulp fiction.
PUMP|0|v. 1 send, force, deliver, push: The heart pumps blood around the body. 2 interrogate, question, examine, cross-examine, quiz, probe, Colloq grill, give (someone) the third degree: They pumped her for hours, but she told them nothing about my whereabouts. 3 pump out. pump dry or empty, empty, drain, bail out, draw or drive or force out, siphon (out): After the flood it took two days to pump out my basement. 4 pump up. a inflate, blow up; dilate, swell, bloat, expand, puff out or up: If you don't repair the tyre, pumping it up will accomplish nothing. b excite, inspire, stimulate, animate, inspirit, electrify, galvanize, energize, motivate, Colloq enthuse: The coach is talking to the team, trying to pump them up before the big game. c intensify, concentrate, emphasize, stress, increase: We ought to pump up our promotion campaign just before Christmas.
PUNK|0|n. 1 ruffian, hoodlum, hooligan, delinquent, tough, thug, vandal, yahoo, barbarian, Colloq goon, mug: A couple of young punks were standing at the bar, trying to look important. --adj. 2 inferior, rotten, unimportant, worthless, bad, poor, awful, Colloq lousy: I thought that the lead in the play was a punk actor.
PUNT|0|v. 1 bet, wager, stake, gamble, speculate, lay a bet or stake or wager: Herbert spends all the grocery money punting at the races. --n. 2 bet, wager, stake, gamble: In roulette, Janet always placed her punt on number 14.
PUNY|0|adj. 1 small, little, insignificant, petty, unimportant, inconsequential, paltry, trivial, trifling, minor, negligible, nugatory, of little or no account, inferior, worthless, useless, Colloq piddling, Slang Brit not much cop: Farr's contribution to the success of the business was really quite puny. 2 small, little, diminutive, tiny, minute: Mattson looks so puny alongside that sumo wrestler. 3 weak, feeble, frail, sickly, weakly, underfed, undernourished, undersized, underdeveloped, stunted, dwarf, midget, pygmy: You cannot expect such a puny chap to lift such a great weight.
PURE|0|adj. 1 unmixed, unadulterated, unalloyed, simon-pure; 24-carat or US also 24-karat, sterling, solid; real, genuine, authentic, flawless, faultless, perfect, natural, true, simple: We have made every effort to keep the blood-line of these horses completely pure. Pure gold is not used for coins or jewellery because it is too soft. She wore a dress of the purest white. 2 uncontaminated, clear, clean, wholesome, sanitary, uninfected, disinfected, pasteurized, sterilized, sterile, antiseptic, unpolluted, spotless, immaculate, unsullied, unbesmirched, unblemished, unmarred, unstained, untainted: It was refreshing to breathe pure air again. Stringent tests ensure that the substances are pure before they go on the market. 3 chaste, virginal, virgin, intact, maidenly, vestal, undefiled, innocent, guileless, virtuous, modest, moral, correct, proper, decent, decorous, uncorrupted, blameless, sinless, impeccable: As far as we can tell, she led a totally pure life. 4 theoretical, hypothetical, conjectural, speculative, abstract, conceptual, notional, philosophical, academic(al): His field is pure science, and he cares little how the results of his work might be applied to everyday life. 5 unalloyed, simple, unmitigated, sheer, utter, absolute, unqualified, complete, total, perfect, thorough, outright, downright, out-and-out, mere: Many regarded the notion that man could ever fly as pure nonsense. Any resemblance to a living person is pure coincidence. 6 honourable, (highly) principled, righteous, upright, honest, straightforward, high-minded, pious, worthy, good, ethical, virtuous, sincere, above suspicion, above reproach, like Caesar's wife: Can anyone doubt that their motives in striving for international peace are pure?
PUSH|0|v. 1 thrust, shove, drive, move, set in motion, get moving, propel; press: Push the boat away from the pier. He pushed the door shut. 2 press, depress: Push the button if you want anything. 3 shove, thrust, elbow, shoulder, force, jostle, nudge: We pushed our way through the crowd. 4 urge, encourage, press, induce, ask, persuade, get, egg on, press, prod, spur, goad, rouse, prompt, incite, move, motivate, stimulate, influence, impel, make, compel, force, dragoon, coerce, constrain; badger, hound, pester, harass, plague, nag, browbeat; beg, importune, entreat: His family is pushing him to find work. I'll soon have the work done, but stop pushing me. 5 force, strain, overstrain, tax, overtax, burden, overburden: You might have got away with it this time, but don't push your luck. 6 promote, publicize, advertise, boost, propagandize, puff, Colloq plug, Slang ballyhoo, hype: Because we have too much stock, we are pushing suntan oil this week. 7 push about or around. intimidate, bully, cow, domineer, tyrannize, bullyrag, torment, force, coerce: Don't push people about if you want them to do what you want. 8 push away. reject, deny, brush off or aside, give (someone) the cold shoulder, rebuff, distance oneself from: She pushes everyone away and then wonders why she has no friends. 9 push off. a shove off, sail away or off: We stepped into the dinghy and pushed off. b leave, depart, go away, Colloq light out, take off, hit the road, skedaddle, scram, make oneself scarce, Slang beat it: I have to push off now if I'm to make that train. 10 push on or forward or along. move onwards or onward or ahead or forward, continue, proceed, advance, press on or onwards or onward: If we stay the night here, we shall have to push on first thing in the morning. 11 push through. force, press, Colloq railroad: The bill was pushed through committee without delay. 12 push (up) daisies. be dead (and buried), be six feet under: Her husband's pushing up daisies. --n. 13 shove, thrust, nudge: My ...
QUIP|0|n. 1 (bon) mot, witticism, sally, jest, ad lib, joke, gibe, barb, aphorism, epigram, apophthegm or apothegm, pun, double entendre, equivoque or equivoke, Colloq gag, one-liner, crack, wisecrack, wheeze, chestnut: In his worst quip he attributed the breakdown of his computer to a slipped diskette. --v. 2 joke, jest, gibe, Colloq wisecrack, US crack wise: As Mae West quipped, 'It's not the men in my life that count; it's the life in my men'.
QUIT|0|v. 1 leave, depart from, go (away) from, get away from, decamp, exit, desert, flee, forsake, abandon, Colloq take off, beat it, skip: They think that he will try to quit the country if he is released on bail. 2 resign, give up, relinquish, leave, renounce, retire from, withdraw from: Would you really quit your job to sail around the world? 3 cease, stop, discontinue, leave off, desist from: They would always quit laughing when I walked into the room. --adj. 4 free, clear, discharged, rid of, released (from), exempt (from): When my ex-wife remarried I was quit of the burden of paying alimony.
QUIZ|0|n. 1 examination, test, Colloq exam: We have a ten-minute quiz every week on our reading assignment. --v. 2 question, interrogate, ask, examine, Colloq grill, pump: The police have quizzed everyone in the neighbourhood about what they might have seen.
RACE|0|n. 1 foot-race, horse-race, marathon, rally or rallye; competition, contest, rivalry, contention: How many will be running in Saturday's race? Several countries had joined the race to complete a workable anti-gravity device. 2 sluice, flume, chute, watercourse, course, channel, bed, mill-race, raceway, spillway; track: The water in the race enabled us to wash the sand in order to extract the gold. The ball-bearings don't fall out because they are retained in the race. 3 the races. horse-races, dog-races, the dogs, the track, the turf, Brit racecourse, race meeting, US racetrack: We're off to the races at Newmarket. --v. 4 speed, hurry, hasten, dash, sprint, fly, rush, scramble, step lively, Colloq tear, rip, zip, step on the gas, step on it, hop to it, get a move on, Brit hare, US get a wiggle on: You're going to have to race to catch the last bus. 5 compete (with): I'll race you to the gate and back.
RACK|0|n. 1 framework, frame, trestle, holder, support; stand, scaffold, scaffolding, structure, hat-rack, hatstand, coat-rack, Technical stretcher, tenter, US hat-tree: The fish are hung out on long racks in the sun to dry. Please take your luggage off the seat and put it on the overhead rack. 2 suffering, torment, torture, agony, anguish, pain, misery, distress, affliction, scourge, adversity: Only those who have experienced it can know the severe rack of gout. --v. 3 distress, torment, torture, agonize, oppress, pain, persecute, anguish, beleaguer, plague, harass, harrow, hurt: Gruber was racked by the feeling that he had been responsible for the road accident. Quentin has been racked by the pain of arthritis for ten years. 4 beat, strain, wrench, tear at, lash (at), batter, shake, damage: Winds of hurricane force racked villages along the coast last night.
RACY|0|adj. 1 fresh, lively, animated, spirited, sprightly, buoyant, vivacious, energetic, vigorous, dynamic, zestful, stimulating, mettlesome or mettled, Colloq full of vim and vigour, peppy, full of pep, full of beans: Tabloid journalists are told that their writing must be racy - straightforward reporting is out of fashion. 2 risqu÷, ribald, bawdy, naughty, lusty, earthy, gross, off colour, salty, suggestive, sexual, immodest, indelicate, indecent, blue, smutty, lewd, salacious, vulgar, dirty, filthy, pornographic, obscene, sex-oriented, adult, rude, crude, coarse, Colloq raunchy, sexy, spicy, hot: By mistake my name got on the mailing list of some company selling racy videos. 3 spicy, piquant, tasty, flavourful, pungent, strong, savoury, sharp, zesty, tangy, tart, hot: That curry you served last night had quite a racy flavour.
RAGE|0|n. 1 anger, fury, wrath, ire, high dudgeon, exasperation, vehemence, passion: Imagine her rage when Simon phoned to say that he couldn't make it home for dinner! 2 fury, passion, frenzy, hysterics, tantrum, fit, temper, Brit paddy or paddywhack or paddywack, Colloq Brit wax: He flies into a rage if Grace is as little as five minutes late for an appointment. 3 fashion, craze, vogue, the (latest or newest) thing, last word, dernier cri, mode, Colloq fad: Miniskirts were all the rage in the 1960s. --v. 4 rant, rave, storm, go mad or crazy or bonkers or wild or out of one's mind, go berserk, run amok or amuck, behave or act or be like one possessed, fret, be beside oneself (with anger or fury), lose one's temper, go berserk, have a tantrum, fulminate, explode; fume, foam at the mouth, stew, smoulder, boil, seethe, simmer, Colloq have kittens, lose one's cool, fly off the handle, go off the deep end, Slang get into or work oneself up into a lather or stew or sweat, get all worked up, blow one's top, blow a gasket, blow up, flip one's top or lid, hit the ceiling or roof, freak out, be fit to be tied, be ready for a strait-jacket, Brit throw a wobbly, US and Canadian blow one's stack, flip one's wig, blow a fuse, have a haemorrhage, go ape, do a slow burn, have a conniption fit: Father raged for hours when he found that Donald had borrowed the car without permission.
RAID|0|n. 1 (surprise) attack, incursion, invasion, onset, onslaught, blitz, sortie, sally, expedition, Slang (police) bust: The partisans made a raid on the arsenal last night and got away with guns and ammunition. --v. 2 attack, invade, assault, storm, set upon, descend upon, swoop down on or upon, pounce upon, Military forage; sack, plunder, pillage, loot, ransack, rifle, strip, maraud, depredate, Slang bust: The commandos raided the enemy stronghold and destroyed it.
RAIL|0|n. 1 bar, rod, handrail, foot-rail , towel-rail; railing, banisters, balustrade, baluster, fence: Don't lean on the rail or it will break. 2 by or via rail. by train, by railway or US also railroad: We travelled by rail from Paris to Geneva.
RAIN|0|n. 1 precipitation, drizzle, sprinkle, downpour, shower, thunder-shower, cloudburst, rainstorm, squall, deluge, US sunshower: After the rain the sun came out. 2 rainfall, precipitation: The rain in Spain falls mainly in the plain. 3 flood, torrent, shower, volley, stream, outpouring: Arriving home, she could barely shield herself from the rain of children's kisses. --v. 4 come down, pour, teem, sprinkle, drizzle, spit, Brit dialect mizzle, Colloq come down in buckets, rain cats and dogs: The weatherman said it would rain today, so take an umbrella. 5 trickle, pour, run, fall: Tears rained down her sallow cheeks. 6 descend, shower: Blows rained on him from the tiny fists of the furious child. 7 bestow, lavish, shower: He rained kisses on her upturned face.
RAKE|0|v. 1 Often, rake up. scrape together, gather (together or up), collect, draw together: You really must rake up the leaves from the lawn and burn them. 2 scrape, comb, scratch, grate, graze: Don't you just hate the sound of a fingernail being raked across a blackboard? 3 rake in. collect, gather (up or in), pull in, make: Pamela is raking in the royalties from her latest thriller. 4 rake it in. coin money, make money (hand-over-fist), Brit coin it in: The new record shop in the mall is really raking it in. 5 rake out. sift (out), screen, remove, clear, eliminate: Please rake out the cinders from the grate. 6 rake over or through. search, probe, ransack, scour, comb, rummage through, pick through or over, go through or over (with a fine-tooth(ed) comb), rifle (through): The police raked through her entire flat but found nothing incriminating. 7 rake up. a See 1, above. b revive, resuscitate, resurrect, raise, bring up, recall: Must you persist in raking up those bad memories? 8 rake up or together. gather, scrape up or together, collect, drag together, pick up, dig up, dredge up, find, unearth: Were you able to rake up the others for a game of poker tonight?
RAMP|0|n. slope, grade, gradient, incline; rise, ascent, acclivity; descent, dip, declivity: There is a special ramp in the theatre for wheelchair access.
RANK|0|n. 1 status, standing, position, place, level, stratum, class, caste, circumstances, echelon, grade: It is virtually impossible to determine rank simply by looking at a person. 2 weight, authority, power, superiority, seniority, ascendancy, priority, influence, eminence: Caldwell uses the privilege of rank to cover up some of his more questionable transactions. 3 nobility, title, high birth, aristocracy, dignity, prestige, (blue) blood; peerage: Gentlemen of rank should behave with honour, my boy. 4 line, row, column, queue, series, formation; sequence: We gazed on the serried ranks of warriors, golden shields glistening in the sun. 5 ranks. soldiers, workers, staff, employees: Smithers rose from the ranks to become chief executive officer. --v. 6 grade, rate, classify, class, categorize; dispose, organize, order, sort, assort, arrange, array, align, range, graduate: He was ranked among the best in the school. The applicants are ranked according to their test scores. 7 rate, count, stand, have standing or value or prestige, be important or distinguished: To Janet, character ranks far above wealth. Phil is so mean that Scrooge would rank high on a list of charitable men in comparison with him.
RANT|0|v. 1 declaim, hold forth, expound, expatiate, orate, perorate, pontificate, trumpet, preach, harangue, lecture, deliver (oneself of) a tirade or diatribe or speech, speak: The minister ranted pompously about his accomplishments. 2 vociferate, bluster, rave, rant and rave, bellow, rage: The master kept ranting on about his newspaper having been creased. --n. 3 tirade, philippic, bluster, flatulence, rhetoric, bombast, pomposity, turgidity, gasconade, rodomontade, theatrics, histrionics, act: As he carried on his rant, the theatre gradually emptied till he was alone.
RAPE|0|n. 1 ravishment, defloration, deflowering, violation, sexual assault, defilement: The police are investigating reports of rape by a masked man. 2 rapine, despoliation, spoliation, despoilment, pillage, depredation, ravagement, ravaging, plunder, plundering, sack, sacking, looting, ransacking: He travelled in disguise to document the rape of the war-torn areas. 3 abduction, carrying-off, kidnapping, seizure, capture, snatching: History debates whether the ancient Romans were truly responsible for the rape of the Sabine women. --v. 4 violate, ravish, assault sexually, deflower, defile, force to submit to sexual intercourse, have one's way with, take advantage of: The defendant raped three women before he was caught. 5 despoil, spoliate, pillage, depredate, ravage, plunder, sack, loot: Throughout history the city has been raped by marauding tribes.
RAPT|0|adj. 1 entranced, fascinated, spellbound, mesmerized, hypnotized, engrossed, enthralled, bewitched, absorbed, transported, captivated, delighted: She gave her last performance of 'Giselle' before a rapt audience. 2 enraptured, rapturous, delighted, elated, happy, ecstatic, blissful, overjoyed, joyous, joyful, beatific: You should have seen the rapt expression on the child's face when Santa Claus appeared.
RARE|0|adj. 1 uncommon, unfamiliar, unusual, exceptional, out of the ordinary, extraordinary, atypical; scarce, unparalleled, choice, recherch÷, phenomenal, infrequent, few and far between, sparse, scanty, limited, seldom encountered or met with or seen; unique, singular, one of a kind; Chiefly Brit thin on the ground: It was rare to see Liz in such good humour. Specimens in such perfect condition are rare. A copy of the first edition in this condition is rare. 2 fine, good, admirable, excellent, choice, select, special, first-rate, first-class, exquisite, superior, superlative, peerless, unequalled, matchless, incomparable, in a class by itself or herself or himself or themselves, sui generis, outstanding; collectible or collectable: O, rare Ben Jonson! On exhibit was a black pearl of rare beauty and remarkable size. Consideration for others seems a rare quality these days.
RASH|0|adj. impetuous, impulsive, unthinking, thoughtless, foolhardy, unconsidered, ill-considered, ill-advised, injudicious, imprudent, indiscreet, precipitate, hasty, careless, heedless, reckless, headlong, wild, madcap, hare-brained, hotheaded, adventurous, quixotic, venturesome, audacious, bold, dashing, brash, devil-may-care: It was rash of him to try to sail round the world single-handed, but he did it.
RASP|0|n. 1 grating, scrape, scraping, scratch, scratching, grinding, stridulation: One could hear the rasp of the file as they tried to cut through the door. 2 file, grater: The coarser rasp is for use on wood. --v. 3 scrape, abrade, grate, file: First, rasp the horseradish, then combine the gratings with a little vinegar. 4 irritate, jar (upon), grate upon or against, rub (someone) (up) the wrong way, nettle, irk, annoy, vex, wear on, get, Literary gride: She has a rasping metallic voice that gets on my nerves. 5 croak, squawk, screech: The sergeant rasped out another command and the company marched forward.
RATE|0|n. 1 measure, pace, gait, speed, velocity, Colloq clip: We moved along at a pretty fast rate. Rates of production must increase. 2 charge, price, fee, tariff, figure, amount; toll: The rate for a hotel room has increased enormously in the past few years. 3 percentage, scale, proportion: What is the current rate of interest on government savings bonds? 4 Usually, -rate. rank, grade, place, standing, status, position, class, classification, kind, sort, type, rating, status, worth, value, valuation, evaluation: After a few years, he had improved from a second-rate typist to a first-rate secretary. 5 at any rate. in any case, in any event, anyway, at all events, anyhow, under any circumstances, regardless, notwithstanding: At any rate, with their last child out of university, they have no more worries about paying education costs. --v. 6 rank, grade, class, classify, evaluate, estimate, calculate, compute, count, reckon, judge, gauge, assess, appraise, measure: How do you rate your chances of beating the champion? 7 merit, be entitled to, deserve, be worthy of, have a claim to: The play doesn't rate all the attention it's been getting in the press. 8 count, place, measure: She rates very high among her friends.
RAVE|0|v. 1 rant, rage, storm, fulminate, roar, thunder, howl, yell, caterwaul, yowl, bellow, shout, scream, fly off the handle, Colloq flip one's top or lid, Slang raise hell: He kept raving on about his coffee mug having been pinched. 2 rave about. praise, laud, rhapsodize over, applaud, gush over: Bernard can't stop raving about that new Thai restaurant. --n. 3 praise, acclaim, favour, enthusiastic reception, tribute, testimonial, encomium, bouquet, plaudits, accolade, admiration, US hosanna: The play got raves in all the newspapers when it opened. 4 rage, fashion, vogue, trend, thing, last word, dernier cri, craze, mania, Colloq fad: The rave that year was for stiletto heels. 5 party, féte, soir÷e, Colloq do, Slang bash, blow-out, Brit rave-up , US wingding, blast: Monica threw quite a rave to celebrate her new job.
RAZE|0|v. tear or pull or bring or knock or throw down, demolish, destroy, level, flatten, bulldoze: As usual, beautiful old buildings were razed to make way for a new shopping centre.
READ|0|v. 1 peruse, scan, skim, review, study, look over, pore over: I have read the article twice but still cannot understand it. 2 understand, know, be familiar with, comprehend, interpret, decipher: Can you read Greek? Madame Sonja reads tea leaves. 3 announce, present, deliver: Anna reads the news on TV at six o'clock every evening. 4 read into. assign to, impute (to), infer (from), assume (from), presume (from), conclude (from): You might be reading too much into that letter of commendation.
REAL|0|adj. 1 genuine, true, actual, authentic, verified, verifiable, legitimate, right, bona fide, official; legal, legitimate, licit, natural, valid, veritable: He says that his name is Smith, but what is his real name? Her diamonds are not real. It has been proved beyond the shadow of a doubt that he is the real father. 2 genuine, actual, true, existent, authentic, natural; material, physical, tangible, palpable, corporeal: How can one distinguish between the real object and what one sees, which is merely its image? 3 genuine, sincere, heartfelt, true, actual, unfeigned, unaffected, earnest, honest, truthful, legitimate, valid: Deirdre's face is so impassive that it is impossible to tell what her real feelings are. What's the real reason that you're here? 4 genuine, actual, true, loyal, trustworthy, trusted, honest: You are a real friend, and I know I can count on you. 5 intrinsic, actual, true, genuine, proper, essential: The ø150 million sale of the company fell significantly below its real value. --adv. 6 See really, below.
REAM|0|v. drill (out), bore (out), open up, tap: The carpenter reamed three holes in the beam.
REAP|0|v. 1 harvest, garner, glean, gather (in), mow, take in or up: The land was fertile, and a bountiful crop was reaped. As ye sow, so shall ye reap. 2 profit, bring in, gain, procure, acquire, get, obtain, take in: It is impossible to reap much when there is so small a margin between cost and selling price.
REAR|0|n. 1 back (part), end, hind part, Nautical stern, Colloq tail (end), fag-end, US and Canadian tag end: The rear of the column was attacked as it marched through the defile. We took seats at the rear of the auditorium. 2 hindquarters, posterior, rump, buttocks, Colloq bottom, behind, backside, rear end, Slang Brit arse, bum, US and Canadian ass, tokus, tochis; Babytalk US and Canadian tushie or tushy or tush, hinie: As he left, he felt someone give him a pat on the rear. --adj. 3 back, last, end, rearmost, Nautical aft, after, stern: The rear window is all misted over. The troop was bringing up the rear echelon.
REEK|0|v. 1 stink or smell (to high heaven), Slang Brit pong, hum: Allie reeks from cleaning out the stable. 2 smoke, steam: It is because it used to reek so badly that Edinburgh acquired its nickname, 'Auld Reekie'. --n. 3 stink, stench, fetor or foetor, miasma, mephitis, odour, smell, Slang Brit hum, pong: The reek of rotting vegetation permeated the atmosphere. 4 fumes, smoke, steam, vapour, exhalation, cloud, mist: He delighted in the redolent reek that arose from the haggis.
REEL|0|v. 1 stagger, totter, waver, stumble, lurch, falter, roll, rock, sway, flounder, pitch: Chris came reeling down the lane, dead drunk. 2 reel off. list, recite, rattle off, enumerate, review, itemize, name, read off, call off, run through, run over: Under questioning, the suspect began to reel off the names of his accomplices.
REIN|0|n. 1 check, curb, control, restraint, constraint, limitation, harness, bridle, brake: You are going to have to put a rein on your expenses. 2 reins. control, command, control, administration, running, leadership, power, rule, tiller, helm: He should hand over the reins to a younger person. --v. 3 rein in. check, curb, control, restrain, limit, harness, bridle, restrict, pull back on: You will have to rein in your passions: it is not becoming to behave in this way at your age.
RELY|0|v. rely on or upon. depend on or upon, lean on or upon, count on or upon, bank on or upon, have confidence in, bet on, trust in, swear by, be sure or certain of: You can rely on Philippa to come through when you need a friend. I am relying on the fact that interest rates are likely to stay at their present levels.
REND|0|v. 1 rip or tear or pull (to pieces or apart or asunder), wrench, mangle, shred: The bully threatened to rend me limb from limb. 2 split, tear, rip, rupture, cleave, split, rive, separate, slice, lacerate: When the balloon was rent from top to bottom, the basket fell to the ground. 3 pain, distress, pierce, stab, smite, wound, afflict, torment, wring, hurt: My heart was rent by conflicting emotions.
RENT|0|v. 1 let (out), lease, hire (out), charter (out), farm out: Eric owns a three-bedroom house that he rents out. I should like to rent a yacht for a cruise this summer. --n. 2 rental, hire, lease, fee: The rent comes to about a quarter of my salary.
REST|0|n. 1 repose, sleep, nap, doze, siesta, slumber, Chiefly Brit lie-down, Colloq forty winks, zizz, snooze; shut-eye: I think I'll have a bit of a rest before dinner. 2 relaxation, intermission, interval, interlude, entr'acte, rest period, cessation, (tea or coffee) break, recess, breather, breathing-spell, respite, time off, holiday, Chiefly US and Canadian vacation: Why don't you take a rest for a while? 3 ease, relaxation, leisure, indolence, idleness, inactivity, loafing, dozing: His well-deserved rest was disturbed by an urgent request from Interpol to investigate a smuggling operation. 4 prop, support, holder, brace, trestle, shelf, bracket: Those old guns were too heavy to hold and fire without using a rest. 5 come to rest. stop, end up, turn up, arrive: The ball rolled down the slope and came to rest in a puddle. --v. 6 (go to) sleep, doze, relax, take a rest, (take one's) repose, lie down, recline, go or take to one's bed, take one's ease, unwind, loll, languish, laze about, be idle, idle about, lounge, (take a) nap, put one's feet up, Colloq take it easy, snooze, count sheep, have a zizz, catch or grab some shut-eye, get or take forty winks, US catch or log a few zees (Z's), Slang Brit kip, doss down, hit the sack, hit the hay, US sack out: Rest now - you'll feel better tomorrow. 7 reside, be situated, be lodged, lie, be placed, hinge, be found, remain, stay: The responsibility for passenger safety rests with the captain and the crew. The blame for this fiasco rests on you. 8 place, position, put, lay, set, lean, prop: Rest your head on my shoulder. 9 lie, remain, stay: Can't you let the matter rest? 10 allay, calm, quiet, still, stay: Rest your fears - I shall let nothing happen to you.
RICH|0|adj. 1 wealthy, affluent, prosperous, well-to-do, well off, well provided for, opulent, moneyed, in clover, on velvet, Colloq flush, loaded, on Easy Street, rolling in it or money or wealth, in the chips or the dough or the money, well-heeled, US well-fixed: A year ago Montmorency was a rich man, but that was before Blue Thursday on the Stock Exchange. 2 Sometimes, rich in. abundant (in), overflowing (with), fertile (in), fecund (in), productive (of), copious (in), abounding in, well supplied (with), well stocked (with), rife (with), replete (with), profuse (in or with): The rich prairie land was soon yielding abundant harvests. The surrounding mountains were rich in minerals of all kinds. 3 valuable, precious, invaluable, priceless: For centuries the islanders have enjoyed the rich bounty of the seas. The thieves who broke into the vaults got a rich haul. 4 costly, expensive, dear, valuable, invaluable, precious, priceless, lavish, sumptuous, lush, luxurious, palatial, elaborate, splendid, exquisite, superb, elegant: The caravans returned laden with rich treasures of the Orient - silks, jewels, spices, rare woods, and other luxuries. 5 intense, dark, deep, warm, vibrant, strong, lustrous: At the rajah's court the rich colours of the carpets and hangings dazzle the eye. 6 fat, fattening, heavy, creamy, succulent, savoury, mouth-watering, luscious, sapid, delicious: When Vicky complained that her sweet was too rich, Arthur ate hers, too. 7 mellow, mellifluous, resonant, sonorous, full: Edgar's rich basso filled the cavernous amphitheatre. 8 aromatic, ambrosial, savoury, fragrant, redolent, pungent, strong: The house was filled with the rich odour of freshly made coffee. 9 productive, plentiful, abundant, ample, bountiful, prolific, fruitful, fertile, fecund, copious, profitable, potent: The letters proved a rich source of intimate details about their private life. 10 laughable, funny, hilarious, comic(al), humorous, amusing, Colloq side-splitting: He had many rich an...
RIDE|0|v. 1 sit on or in, travel or journey or go or proceed on or in, be borne or carried or conveyed (on or in), take; propel or control or drive (a horse or a bicycle or a motor cycle): They ride the bus to work each day. The film began with a witch riding a broomstick. Do you know how to ride a motor bike? 2 float, lie: The yacht is riding at anchor off Portsmouth. 3 tyrannize, terrorize, intimidate, dominate, oppress; bully, rag, harry, harass, hector, nag, provoke, heckle, badger, plague, pester, annoy, irritate, Colloq hassle: He has been ridden by obsessive ambition all his life. --n. 4 drive, journey, trip, excursion, tour, jaunt, outing, expedition, Colloq spin: Let's go for a ride in the country! 5 take for a ride. a delude, swindle, trick, deceive, defraud, humbug, defraud, gull, take in, cheat, bamboozle: Those tricksters with the loaded dice certainly took Charlie for a ride last night! b (kidnap and) murder or kill or execute or do in, Slang bump off, US (snatch and) rub out or waste: They said that if he identified them, they would take him for a ride.
RIFT|0|n. 1 separation, break, split, schism, cleft, gulf, gap; disagreement, conflict, disruption, difference, breach, break-up, division, distance, alienation: The continued bitterness served only to intensify the rift between them. 2 tear, rent, opening, hole, crack, chink, crevice, cleavage, fracture, flaw, fault: Water was pouring through an ever-widening rift in the dam.
RIND|0|n. peel, skin, husk: Cut the thin outer part of the rind of a lemon into thin strips and soak them in brandy.
RING|0|n. 1 loop, hoop, band, circle, ringlet, circlet, annulus, grommet, eyelet, quoit, noose, cincture, belt, girdle, cestus or cestos, border, halo, aureole, nimbus, corona, cuff, collar, necklace, neckband, bandeau, fillet, bracelet, armlet, torque or torc, crown, coronet, tiara, diadem, (laurel-)wreath, garland, Mechanics gland, bearing, US and Canadian bushing or Brit also bush, washer, O-ring, Nautical thimble, Architecture and heraldry annulet, Literary roundlet, Anatomy cingulum: The rings brought up from the wreck of the ancient Greek trading vessel are worth a great deal. 2 rink, enclosure, arena, circus, bullring, Spanish plaza de toros, boxing ring: I would no sooner get into the ring with him than with a bull! 3 circle, organization, gang, band, pack, cell, team, crew, confederacy, confederation, combination, cartel, mob, bloc, coterie, set, clan, clique, fraternity, brotherhood, sorority, sisterhood, guild, (secret) society, junta or junto, cabal, faction, group, league, alliance, federation, coalition, union, affiliation, camorra, camarilla, Bund: She was running an international ring of jewel thieves who worked only in the most exclusive resorts. --v. 4 encircle, surround, bind, gird, girt, circle; loop, compass, envelop, encompass, embrace: The swimming-pool is ringed with dense shrubbery. After the vase is fired, I intend to ring the base with a gold band.
RIOT|0|n. 1 rioting, riotous behaviour, disturbance, uproar, tumult, turmoil, (civil) disorder, lawlessness, hubbub, rumpus, turbulence, fracas, fray, affray, mél÷e or melee, pandemonium, Donnybrook, brawl, row, unrest, commotion, bother, imbroglio, outburst, anarchy, disruption, violence, strife, Colloq ruckus, ruction, to-do, do, Brit bovver, punch-up: The government is unable to quell the food riots, which have become more frequent and more violent. 2 funny person or woman or man, comedian or comedienne, hilarious event or bit or shtick or thing or piece of business, Colloq gas, US panic, laugh-riot: Benny's closing routine with the model is an absolute riot. --v. 3 mount the barricades, take to the streets, rebel, revolt, create or cause a disturbance, brawl, fight, (go on the or US also a) rampage, run riot, storm: The prisoners rioted to protest against the crowded conditions.
RIPE|0|adj. 1 mature, matured, seasoned, (fully) grown, (well-)ripened, developed, mellow, ready, fit, US (fully) aged, well-aged: The grapes are ripe for picking. 2 prepared, ready, fit, appropriate, experienced, veteran, seasoned, sage, wise, sophisticated, mature, informed, qualified, dependable, reliable: Henry is ripe in judgement and understanding. 3 ripe for. a timely, opportune, propitious, favourable, auspicious, ideal, right, suitable, apt, proper, suitably advanced: Is the time yet ripe for another revival of Heartbreak House ? b ready, eager, enthusiastic, prepared, fit, ready, in readiness: The mob is ripe for revolt.
RISE|0|v. 1 get up, arise, stand (up), get to one's feet, Brit be upstanding: All rise when the judge enters the court. 2 get up, arise, awaken, waken, wake up, start or begin the day, Nautical or colloq hit the deck, Colloq turn out: We usually rise at about six o'clock. 3 ascend, be elevated, arise, climb, lift, go up, mount: The smoke slowly, almost furtively, rose from the camp-fire into the still night air. The morning star can be seen tomorrow rising in the sky just before dawn. Some of those skyscrapers rise to a height of 110 storeys. 4 Often, rise (up) (against). rebel, revolt, mutiny, kick over the traces, take up arms, mount the barricades, take to the streets: If the food shortages persist, the people are sure to rise up and overthrow the present regime. 5 swell, flood, increase, grow; wax: Owing to the heavy rains, the river is rising rapidly. 6 slant or incline or slope (upwards), ascend, climb, go uphill: The path rises steeply just beyond the cwm. 7 fly, take flight, take wing, take to the air, take off, arise, lift, climb, soar, mount: At the roar of the gun, tens of thousands of flamingoes rose from the lakes. 8 advance, improve one's lot or position, progress, get ahead, go or get somewhere, succeed, make something of oneself, be promoted, prosper, thrive, make good, Colloq make it, make the grade, go places: Fielding could well have risen in the company had his attitude been different. 9 start, begin, originate, arise, occur, happen, take place: I cannot explain how so much bad feeling rose between us. 10 increase, be elevated or lifted or boosted, grow, go up, move upwards, climb, escalate, ascend, snowball: When interest rates rise, they contribute to the inflation that raising them was supposed to reduce. 11 arise, be nurtured, be produced, be generated, be created, spring up, be engendered: The feelings that rose within him were spurred on by sheer hatred of the man. 12 rise to. a arise, come up, meet, be equal to, prove adequate to: If you need a g...
RISK|0|n. 1 danger, peril, jeopardy, hazard, chance, gamble: I would take up skydiving, but my mother won't let me because of the risk. --v. 2 endanger, imperil, jeopardize, hazard, chance, gamble: Would you really risk all your money on one roll of the dice?
RITE|0|n. ceremony, ritual, ceremonial, observance, formality, custom, practice, routine, procedure, solemnity, solemnization, liturgy: This weekend I have to perform the annual rite of having tea with great-aunt Elizabeth at the Ritz.
ROAD|0|n. 1 way, means, approach, route, procedure, technique, method, passage, street, avenue, course, track, entr÷e, access, direction: Our researchers arrived at the identical results via a completely different road. 2 thoroughfare, way, byway, highway, roadway, high road, low road, avenue, boulevard, street, lane, alley(way), Brit motorway, carriageway, US turnpike, expressway, freeway, parkway, throughway or thruway, German Autobahn, Italian autostrada, French autoroute, Colloq US pike: The roads are jammed with traffic on Sunday evenings during the summer.
ROAM|0|v. wander, rove, ramble, range, walk, drift, dally, dawdle, cruise, stroll, amble, meander, saunter, stray, prowl, perambulate, travel, voyage, peregrinate, circumambulate, traipse, gallivant, jaunt, Colloq mosey, swan: They spent a year roaming about the continent, staying wherever they pleased.
ROAR|0|v. 1 bellow, thunder; howl, bawl, squall, cry, yell, yowl; bay, snarl, growl: A train roared by. The crowd roared appreciation. A lion roared once in the night. 2 laugh, guffaw, howl (with laughter), hoot: They fell about roaring when he told the joke about the egg and the taxi. --n. 3 roaring, bellow, thunder, rumble, boom; howl, bawl, squall, cry, yell, yowl, clamour, outcry; snarl, snarling, growl, growling: The roar of the falls could be heard miles away. There was a roar of indignation at the proposal. The beast's roar was enough to strike terror into our hearts. 4 guffaw, outburst, howl, hoot: Everything she said was met by a roar of laughter from the gallery.
ROBE|0|n. 1 cloak, dress, garment, vestment, habit, frock, cassock, caftan, muu-muu, surplice, bathrobe, dressing-gown, lounging robe, housecoat, kimono, house-dress, peignoir, wrapper, French robe de chambre, costume: A woman wearing a green robe came to the door and asked what I wanted. 2 robes. costume, habit, uniform, garb, attire, vestments, apparel, raiment, livery, clothing, garments, outfit, accoutrements or US also accouterments, regalia, finery, trappings, panoply, gear, paraphernalia, appurtenances, equipage, rig, Archaic vesture: She looked absolutely splendid decked out in the full robes of state. --v. 3 cloak, garb, dress, cover, enrobe, clothe: The dish consists of ladyfingers topped with fresh strawberries robed in chocolate, with whipped cream spread over the top.
ROCK|0|n. 1 stone; boulder: In the avalanche, the rocks thoroughly destroyed the ski lodge. 2 crag, tor, escarpment, scarp, Brit outcrop, US outcropping: We used to go rock climbing when I had the strength. 3 on the rocks. a on ice: I'd like a whisky on the rocks, thanks. b in (a) shambles, destroyed, in ruins, ruined, finished, broken-down, beyond repair: He lost his job and his marriage went on the rocks. c destitute, poverty-stricken, indigent, penniless, bankrupt: Unable to find another job, he's been on the rocks for a year, now.
ROLE|0|n. 1 rõle, part, character, impersonation; lines: She had the role of Maria in a recent production of Twelfth Night . 2 function, position, situation, place, post, capacity, job, duty, task, responsibility: Hermione's role in the company is that of managing director.
ROLL|0|v. 1 rotate, cycle, turn (over (and over)), wheel, trundle; revolve, go (a)round, orbit, tumble, somersault or somerset or summersault or summerset: Th landlord rolled another barrel beer into the pub. The children loved rolling about in the ride at the fun fair. 2 pass, go, flow, slip, flit, glide, slide, move (on); expire, elapse, disappear, vanish, evaporate: The time certainly rolls by quickly when you're having fun. 3 move, drive, bowl, be carried or conveyed, cruise, sail, coast, ride, float, fly: We rolled down the road, singing and laughing. 4 undulate, billow, rise and fall: The countryside rolled away before us as far as the eye could see. 5 roar, echo, re-echo, rumble, reverberate, resound, sound, boom, peal, resonate, thunder: The roar of the explosion rolled over us as we ran for cover. 6 rob, steal from: They got their money by rolling drunks. 7 Often, roll out. flatten, level (off or out), smooth (out), even (out), grade: After cutting, the lawn ought to be rolled. 8 Usually, roll over. turn (over), rotate, spin: Roll onto your stomach so I can examine your back. 9 Usually, roll up. furl, coil, curl, wind (up), wrap (up); enwrap, swathe, enfold, envelop, shroud, enshroud: Every night he takes down the banner and carefully rolls it. Cleopatra was rolled up in a rug to be smuggled past the guards. 10 roll in. a arrive, come in, pour in, flow in, turn up, show up: The contributions really started to roll in after the appeal. b luxuriate in, revel in, wallow in, savour, bask in, delight in, take pleasure in, indulge in, rejoice in, relish: Basil has been rolling in unaccustomed wealth since his aunt died. 11 roll out. unroll, unfurl, spread (out), unfold, uncoil, uncurl, unwind, open (out): Roll out the bolt of cloth so that we can measure it. --n. 12 reel, spool, cylinder, scroll; tube: The message was written on a long roll of paper. 13 list, rota, register, record, directory, listing, roster, slate, docket, catalogue, inventory, muster, index, census, ...
ROOM|0|n. 1 space, area, scope, extent, allowance, latitude, elbow-room, range, leeway, margin: There is room for one more inside. 2 chamber, apartment, compartment, office, cell, cubicle: For years Pablo occupied a small room on the top floor. 3 rooms. quarters, lodgings, accommodation, flat, dwelling: We had rooms in an old house downtown. --v. 4 live, lodge, dwell, abide, reside, stay: Did you really room with the daughter of a prime minister?
ROOT|0|n. 1 base, basis, foundation, source, seat, cause, fountain-head, origin, fount, well-spring: Love of money is the root of all evil. 2 rootstock, rootstalk, tap root, rootlet; tuber; Technical radix, radicle, radicel, rhizome, rhizomorph: When transplanting seedlings, special care should be taken not to damage the roots. 3 root and branch. radically, completely, utterly, entirely, wholly, totally: The Romans sought to destroy Carthage root and branch. 4 roots. origins, heritage, family, lineage, house, antecedents, forefathers, foremothers, descent, genealogy, family tree, forebears, ancestors, predecessors, stock, pedigree; birthplace, motherland, fatherland, native land or country or soil, cradle: Carlotta spent years tracing her roots to ancient Rome. The roots of civilization first appeared in Mesopotamia. 5 take root. become set or established or settled, germinate, sprout, grow, develop, thrive, burgeon, flourish, spread: Good work habits should take root at an early age; then they will last a lifetime. --v. 6 plant, set, establish, found, fix, settle, embed or imbed; entrench, anchor: The cuttings failed to grow because they were not properly rooted. Hilary's fear of heights is rooted in a childhood fall from a tree. 7 root out. a Sometimes, root up. uproot, eradicate, eliminate, destroy, extirpate, exterminate: Any subversives in the organization must be rooted out. b find, uncover, discover, dig up or out, unearth, turn up, bring to light: The survey of accounts is aimed at rooting out customers who are slow in paying. v. Usually, root for. cheer (for), applaud (for); boost, support, encourage, urge on: I'm rooting for our side to win.
ROPE|0|n. 1 line, cord, cable, hawser; strand, string: This rope is too light for mooring the boat. She wore a rope of baroque pearls. 2 the ropes. the routine, the procedure, one's way around, the ins and outs; the truth, the (real) situation; Colloq what's what, the score, Brit the gen: It didn't take her long to learn the ropes. --v. 3 tie, bind, lash, hitch, fasten, secure; tether, attach: Rope these two crates together. The horses were roped to the post. 4 rope in. attract, draw (in), tempt, entice, lure, persuade: They are going to use a lottery to rope the customers in to supporting our cause.
ROPY|0|adj. 1 ropey, viscous, stringy, viscid, glutinous, mucilaginous, gluey, gummy, thready, fibrous, filamentous: The plastic resin emerging from the vat looks somewhat ropy, like mozzarella cheese. 2 questionable, inadequate, inferior, deficient, indifferent, mediocre, substandard, unsatisfactory, poor, sketchy: Greenwood's plan for increasing profit margins looks pretty ropy to me. 3 sickly, ill, unwell, hung-over, below par, out of sorts, Colloq under the weather, poorly, rough, not up to snuff, off one's feed: I was feeling pretty ropy on Saturday morning after that do at your place on Friday.
ROSY|0|adj. 1 pink, rose-coloured, red, roseate, reddish, pinkish, cherry, cerise, ruddy, flushed, glowing, blushing, ruby, rubicund, florid; rose-red: During the skiing holiday, they all developed healthy rosy complexions. 2 optimistic, promising, favourable, auspicious, hopeful, encouraging, sunny, bright: Caldwell has a rosy future ahead of him.
ROTE|0|n. 1 routine, ritual: He acquired a rote knowledge of the words, without knowing what they mean. 2 by rote. a by heart, from memory: He can recite the entire Prologue of Canterbury Tales by rote. b unthinkingly, automatically, mechanically: She learned the French dialogue by rote but doesn't understand a word of it.
ROUT|0|n. 1 defeat, trouncing, ruin, overthrow, subjugation, vanquishment, d÷bçcle, conquest, thrashing, drubbing, beating; dispersal, retreat, collapse; Colloq licking, hiding, US and Canadian shellacking: Owing to the government's overwhelming forces, there was a complete rout of the rebels. --v. 2 defeat, win (out) over, trounce, ruin, overthrow, bring down, subjugate, subdue, suppress, vanquish, conquer, overwhelm, overpower, put to rout or flight, worst, best, trample, overrun, thrash, trim, whip, drub, beat, crush, batter, smash, shatter, cut to pieces or ribbons or shreds, destroy, devastate, wipe out, eliminate, put down, seal the doom or the fate of, eradicate, obliterate, Colloq lick, wipe the floor with, polish off, knock off, Hyperbolic sports jargon pulverize, make mincemeat of, ride roughshod over, demolish, mangle, ravage, mutilate, flatten, squash, topple, lay waste, wreak havoc (up)on, ravage, massacre, murder, exterminate, annihilate, liquidate, smother, stifle, do away with, Slang clobber, do in, US skunk, Chiefly US and Canadian cream: Queens Park Rangers routed Manchester United 6-0.
RSUM|0|n. 1 summary, digest, abstract, synopsis, pr÷cis, outline, review, recapitulation, epitome, Colloq run-down, recap: Give me a r÷sum÷ of what went on at the board meeting. 2 curriculum vitae, CV, summary, biography, work or job history, career description, Formal prosopography, Colloq bio, US vita: Suitably qualified candidates are invited to send their r÷sum÷s to the address below.
RUDE|0|adj. 1 impolite, discourteous, disrespectful, ungracious, ungallant, unmannerly, ill-mannered, uncivil, bad-mannered, ungentlemanly, unladylike, ill-bred, unrefined, unpolished, uncouth, boorish, churlish, oafish, loutish, coarse, uncivilized, uncultured, unceremonious: It was rude of him not to get up when she came in, but he doesn't know any better. 2 impertinent, impudent, discourteous, insulting, insolent, offensive, saucy, bold, disrespectful, uncivil, flippant, brusque, curt, gruff, tactless, outrageous, Colloq fresh: I simply asked the chambermaid to make up my room early and she responded with a rude remark. 3 naughty, unrefined, ribald, bawdy, indecent, indelicate, vulgar, obscene, dirty, filthy, lubricious or lubricous, lewd, gross, smutty, taboo, pornographic: Chris has an extensive collection of rude photographs. 4 crude, rough, clumsy, awkward, unskilful, unskilled, artless, inartistic, imperfect, unpolished, inaccurate, gauche, bumbling, raw, inelegant, makeshift, homespun, primitive, misshapen, ill-formed, unfinished, rough-hewn, simple, basic, bare: The replica on view in the local museum is only a rude approximation of the original.
RUIN|0|n. 1 downfall, destruction, devastation, havoc, breakdown, breakup, d÷bçcle, collapse, fall, disintegration, ruination, dissolution, wiping out, failure, decay, undoing, end; conquest, defeat, overthrow; bankruptcy, liquidation, failure: Alexander was responsible for the ruin of the Persian empire. Overwhelming debts spelt Theo's financial ruin. 2 degradation, dishonour, debasement, defilement, corruption, vitiation, seduction, degrading, dishonouring, debasing, defiling, corrupting, vitiating, seducing; deflowering, defloration: Who was the libertine who brought about the ruin of Lord Harecombe's daughter? 3 nemesis, curse, end, bane, curse: That boy will be my ruin! 4 gin, mother's ruin, blue ruin, Slang rot-gut: After eating, we sat down and polished off a bottle of mother's ruin. 5 hag, witch, crone, beldam; dotard, (old) fogy or fogey, fossil, fuddy-duddy, antique, Brit OAP (= 'old-age pensioner'), Chiefly US retiree, Colloq (old) geezer, wreck, Slang dodo: It's hard to understand what those two old ruins see in each other. 6 ruins. debris, wreckage, fragments, rubble, remains: He stood among the ruins of the burnt-out house wondering what to do next. She was trying to piece together the ruins of her disastrous marriage. --v. 7 destroy, devastate, demolish, annihilate, dissolve, wipe out, undo, overthrow, lay waste, raze, shatter, wreck, crush, flatten, wreak havoc (up)on, reduce to nothing or naught, pulverize, smash, bring to ruin: The bomb ruined the entire centre of the city. 8 spoil, disfigure, damage, botch, mess up, make a mess of, mar, uglify: The county office building completely ruins the Aylesbury skyline. 9 spoil, destroy, wreck, nullify, damage, harm, hurt, impair, poison, Slang louse up, screw up, put the kibosh on, US bollix up, Taboo slang chiefly Brit make a balls-up of: I think that your behaviour at the office party may just have ruined your prospects for promotion. 10 bankrupt, pauperize, impoverish, reduce to penury or poverty or destitut...
RULE|0|n. 1 regulation, order, law, ordinance, ruling, decree, ukase, statute, principle, direction, guide, guideline, precept: We go by the Golden Rule here, Jim, 'Do unto others before they do unto you'. 2 dominion, authority, control, sovereignty, sway, command, ascendancy, direction, oversight, supervision, mastery: How could such a despised monarch maintain rule over a people for so long? 3 fact, standard, customs, practice, form, routine, convention, policy, way things are: Honesty and integrity among our students are the rule rather than the exception. 4 as a rule. generally, usually, normally, customarily, for the most part, mostly, ordinarily, mainly, in the main, chiefly, on the whole, commonly, more often than not: As a rule, we require payment in advance. --v. 5 Sometimes, rule over. reign (over), govern, be in control or charge or command (of or over), be in power (over), hold sway (over), wield the sceptre, wear the crown, run; prevail, hold sway, dominate, predominate, control: The hand that rocks the cradle rules the world. Supposedly, the majority rules in a democracy. 6 direct, guide, manage, control, lead, head (up), preside (over), superintend, oversee, supervise, regulate, govern, run: The company is ruled by a committee made up of employees and directors. 7 decide, judge, hand down a judgement or decision, decree, deem, resolve, settle, determine, find, declare, pronounce: The referee ruled that Jones had committed a foul. 8 rule out. ban, bar, prohibit, exclude, eliminate, forbid, preclude, proscribe, negate, dismiss, disregard, bypass, ignore, overlook: The programme committee ruled out Birmingham as the site of next year's conference.
RUNT|0|n. dwarf, pygmy, midget: Save the runt of the litter for me.
RUSE|0|n. trick, device, deception, manoeuvre or chiefly US maneuver, dodge, pretence, pretext, subterfuge, stratagem, ploy, hoax, wile, artifice, imposture: His feigned friendship was only a ruse to get them to reveal their next move.
RUSH|0|v. 1 hurry (up), hasten, run, race, hustle, bustle, make haste, dash, speed, scurry, scramble, scoot, jump, sprint, scamper, scuttle, Colloq move (it), hotfoot (it), skedaddle, step on it, make it snappy, US hightail (it), step on the gas , Slang get moving, get cracking, get a wiggle on, go like a bat out of hell, shake a leg: If you want the job, you'll have to rush to send in your application. Don't rush - there's plenty for everyone. 2 attack, assault, charge, storm, blitz: If we rush them, we might take them by surprise. --n. 3 hurry, haste, hustle, bustle, dash, speed, turmoil, turbulence, flurry, commotion, ferment, pother, ado, to-do, excitement, pell-mell, harum-scarum: What's the rush? 4 surge, sensation, thrill, charge: I felt a rush of pleasure when I saw her coming down the street. --adj. 5 urgent, hurry-up, exigent, high-priority, top-priority, emergency: This is a rush job that must be completed today.
SACK|0|n. 1 pouch, bag, Scots and US dialect poke; Technical sac: She bought a 10-pound sack of potatoes. 2 hit the sack. retire, turn in, go to bed or to sleep, Slang hit the hay, Brit kip (down), US sack out: I need my beauty sleep so I'm going to hit the sack. 3 the sack. dismissal, discharge, firing, Colloq heave-ho, the axe, marching orders, US pink slip, bounce, Chiefly US and Canadian walking papers, Slang Brit the boot, the chop, the push: Ten of us got the sack when the new management took over. --v. 4 dismiss, discharge, fire, let go, lay off, Brit make or declare redundant, Colloq give (someone) the axe or the (old) heave-ho, give (someone) his or her marching orders, Brit give (someone) the sack, US bounce, Slang Brit give (someone) the boot or the chop or the push: Now that he's been sacked, Norman will be able to spend more time with the children.
SAFE|0|adj. 1 unharmed, whole, uninjured, unhurt, (safe and) sound, secure, protected, shielded, sheltered, out of harm's way, all right, Colloq OK or okay: You'll be safe here with me. 2 harmless, non-toxic, non-poisonous, innocuous; unpolluted: This medication is safe if you do not exceed the recommended dosage. Is the water safe to drink? 3 sure, secure, sound, protected, risk-free, riskless, safe as the Bank of England, reliable, dependable, solid, bona fide, conservative, tried and true, Brit safe as houses: It was previously thought that an investment in Alfordyce Ltd was safe. 4 all right, allowable, permissible, acceptable, satisfactory, appropriate, suitable, timely, right, correct, proper, justifiable, justified, Colloq OK or okay: Is it safe to come out now? 5 secured, protected: The children are safe in bed. Your secret is safe with me. --adv. 6 safely, securely: I won't breathe easy till he's safe behind bars. --n. 7 vault, crypt, strongbox, safe-deposit or safety-deposit box, coffer, chest, repository: The necklace is kept in the safe and I never get a chance to wear it.
SAGA|0|n. (heroic) legend, narrative, epic, Edda, chronicle, romance, roman-fleuve, story, tale, adventure: Are you really interested in the continuing saga of the inhabitants of Coronation Street?
SAGE|0|adj. 1 wise, sagacious, prudent, sensible, perspicacious, profound, intelligent, discerning, reasonable, logical, judicious, common-sense, commonsensical: The old woman gave her some sage advice about men, which she promptly forgot. --n. 2 wise man, savant, expert, elder, doyen or doyenne, guru, Nestor, pundit, Solomon, philosopher, oracle, authority: The sage whose counsel you seek lives deep in the forest.
SAIL|0|v. 1 navigate, pilot, steer: Sail as close to the shore as possible to avoid the whirlpool. 2 go sailing or boating or yachting, cruise, set sail, put (out) to sea: Would you like to sail to the Isle of Wight for the weekend? 3 drift, move lightly, breeze, flow, waft, sweep, coast, float, scud, glide, slide, slip, plane, skim, fly, flit: It was delightful to watch the tiny boats sailing, tacking, beating, and running in the brisk wind. --n. 4 canvas: The schooner was carrying all the sail she could.
SAKE|0|n. 1 benefit, welfare, well-being, good, advantage, behalf, profit, gain, account: Joe and I stayed together for the sake of the children. She felt pleased, for his sake, that he had managed to get away. 2 purpose(s), reason(s), objective(s): Just for the sake of comparison, let us now look at the situation in Taiwan.
SALE|0|n. 1 selling, traffic, vending, marketing, trafficking, trading; trade, exchange, transaction: The sale of alcoholic beverages on Sundays is prohibited. Provide a receipt for each sale. 2 trade, purchase; trading, buying, purchasing: We must do something to boost sales. The house is very reasonably priced for a quick sale. 3 sales event, mark-down, white sale, jumble sale, Brit car-boot sale, US rummage sale, garage sale, tag sale, yard sale, Colloq sellathon, sales marathon: We are having a sale to clear out things we no longer want or need. 4 transaction: She hasn't made a sale in a week. 5 on sale. US marked down, cut-price, bargain-priced; reduced (in price): Bacon is on sale this week at half price. 6 (up) for sale. on the market, available, in stock, Chiefly Brit on sale, on offer, US on the block: Their house is for sale to the highest bidder.
SALT|0|n. 1 common or table salt, sodium chloride, sea salt, rock-salt: A little salt will bring out the flavour. 2 spice, spiciness, zest, zestiness, pungency, vigour, vitality, liveliness, pep, pepper, poignancy, piquancy, relish, bite, savour, seasoning, taste, Colloq zip, zing, punch: Yes, do invite Randolph, for he can be relied on to add a little salt to the dinner conversation. 3 (Attic) wit, Attic salt, dry humour, sarcasm: Her conversation is sprinkled with the salt of clever aphorisms. 4 See sailor, above. 5 with a grain or pinch of salt. cum grano salis, warily, cautiously, qualifiedly, qualifyingly, doubtfully, sceptically, suspiciously, reservedly, with reservation(s) or qualification(s): You have to take what he says with a grain of salt. --v. 6 season, spice, flavour, pepper: The pirate's speech was salted with expressions like 'Shiver me timbers!', 'Avast there!', and 'Blow me down!' 7 pickle, cure, preserve, corn, marinate, souse: The book gives several recipes for curing ham and salting beef. 8 salt away. save (up), hoard, put or lay or set by or aside, squirrel away, store up, stockpile, amass, accumulate, pile up, Colloq stash away, US and Canadian sock away: They were always terribly stingy, claiming they were salting something away for their old age. --adj. 9 salty, saline, brackish, briny: The water had a salt taste. 10 pickled, kippered, marinated, soused; corned; cured: Do you like salt herring?
SAME|0|adj. 1 identical, exact (same), selfsame; very: When I said they were wearing the same dress I meant that they were wearing identical dresses. That's the same tie you wore when we first met. 2 unchanged, unchanging, changeless, unmodified, unaltered, constant, uniform, unvaried, unvarying; word-for-word, verbatim: As you can see, it's the same old Charley you used to know and love. Professor Spicer is still giving the same lecture that he has given all these years. 3 all the same. at the same time, nevertheless, nonetheless, even so, yet, but, anyway, anyhow, in any case, in any event, at any rate, regardless, still (and all), in spite of or despite the fact, notwithstanding, for all that, that (having been) said, having said that, after all is said and done, just the same: Of course you have a right to go; all the same, I wish you had let me know.
SANE|0|adj. normal, of sound mind, rational, compos mentis, well-balanced, right-minded, level-headed, rational, reasonable, sensible, judicious, Colloq right in the head, all there: They decided that the killer was sane and fit to stand trial.
SAVE|0|v. 1 (come to someone's) rescue, deliver; (set) free, liberate, release, redeem, bail (someone) out; recover, salvage, retrieve: What can be done to save me from the drudgery of doing the laundry? She saved only one thing of value from the fire. 2 keep, preserve, guard, safeguard, protect, conserve, secure, shelter, shield: One way to save dried flowers is to press them between the leaves of a book. 3 lay or put aside, lay or put by, lay or put away, keep, retain, set apart, hold, reserve, preserve, conserve; economize, scrimp, scrape: Soon he had saved enough money to buy a new car. If you keep on saving, you may soon have enough for a new suit. 4 obviate, preclude, spare, prevent: A little extra care taken now will save a lot of trouble later on.
SCAN|0|v. 1 glance at or through, look over, skim, read over, flip or thumb or leaf through: I didn't have time to read it thoroughly, but I did scan it. 2 study, pore over, examine, investigate, scrutinize, inspect, delve into, research, explore (in depth), sweep, Archaic con: Scan the horizon for hostile planes. --n. 3 look, survey, inspection, examination, overview: A microscopic scan revealed no trace of blood.
SCAR|0|n. 1 blemish, mark, damage, disfigurement, wound, injury, scratch, mar, cut, burn, brand, cicatrix: Fortunately, the cut is shallow and shouldn't leave a scar. --v. 2 blemish, mark, damage, disfigure, wound, injure, scratch, mar, cut, burn, brand; dent: The blow scarred him for life.
SCUD|0|v. fly, skim, race, scoot, speed, shoot: We scudded along in the catamaran at a good 30 knots.
SEAL|0|n. 1 symbol, token, mark, insigne (pl. insignia), sign, signet, crest, bearing, coat of arms, escutcheon, emblem, badge, monogram, identification, cartouche, design, imprint, stamp: The seal on his ring showed a crouching lion. 2 authentication, confirmation, verification, validation, affirmation, attestation, ratification, corroboration, assurance, guarantee or guaranty, endorsement, substantiation, evidence, notice, notification: Management set their seal of approval on the plans. --v. 3 Sometimes, seal off or up. close (off or up), shut (off), zip up, plug (up), stop (up), lock, bolt, secure, batten down, make airtight or waterproof; cork: All exits had been sealed off. They sealed up the windows so that no air could get in. 4 authenticate, confirm, verify, validate, affirm, attest, ratify, clinch, corroborate, assure, ensure, guarantee, endorse: The peace treaty was sealed by the marriage of the king to the emperor's daughter.
SEAM|0|n. 1 junction, juncture, joint, suture, Technical commissure; scar, ridge, line, cicatrix: It is easy enough to see the seam where the parts meet. 2 lode, vein, stratum, bed, layer, thickness: The miners have been working on a new seam discovered at the end of Tunnel 4.
SEAT|0|n. 1 place, chair, bench, sofa, settee, settle, stool, throne: He found a seat and waited to be called. 2 focus, base, centre, heart, hub, site, capital, cradle, headquarters, fountain-head: In those days, Paris was the main seat of learning in western Europe. Istanbul was established as the seat of the Turkish empire. 3 membership, position, incumbency: His grandfather held a seat in the House of Commons. 4 bottom, buttocks, posterior(s), rump, hindquarters, fundament, derriëre, Colloq behind, butt, backside, rear (end), Brit bum, US fanny, tushie, tush, tokus, hinie, Slang tail, Brit arse, US ass: He needs a swift kick in the seat to get him to move. 5 abode, residence, home, domicile, estate, mansion: The duchess used to spend the summer at her country seat in Norfolk. --v. 6 hold, accommodate, have room or space or capacity for, contain, sit: The new auditorium will seat more than four thousand. 7 install or instal, enthrone, ensconce, instate, invest, establish, place, swear in: Once Lord Carter has been seated, it will be difficult to get rid of him.
SECT|0|n. 1 religious order or group or denomination or body or cult or persuasion or subdivision: At times it seems as if there are as many sects as worshippers. 2 school (of thought), faction, ism, set, clique, cabal: He belonged to a small sect that promulgated the Ptolemaic cosmogony.
SEED|0|n. 1 grain, spore, kernel, pit, tuber, bulb, corm, Technical ovum, ovule, embryo, egg, germ: Add water and the seeds will soon germinate. 2 origin, source, cause, root, provocation, reason, basis, grounds; motive, motivation, motivating factor: The seeds of suspicion were sown by the continuous police presence in the neighbourhood. 3 offspring, children, progeny, young, issue, descendants, heirs, successors: Yea, and verily I say unto you that his seed shall populate the earth. 4 go or run to seed. run down, become dilapidated or worn out or shabby, decay, go downhill, decline, degenerate, deteriorate, go to rack and ruin, Colloq go to pot: If he doesn't start to look after it, the entire place will go to seed. --v. 5 scatter, sow, distribute: Don't walk on the freshly seeded lawn.
SEEK|0|v. 1 look (for), search (for), hunt (for), go or be after, quest after, pursue: They are seeking a really good site for a grand luxury hotel. Seek and ye shall find. 2 hope, aim, aspire, try, essay, endeavour, undertake: They are seeking to recruit members for the new party. 3 ask for, request, beg, solicit, invite; demand: He sought her help and she refused him.
SEEM|0|v. appear, look (as if or non-standard in US like), sound, feel, have (all) the hallmarks or earmarks of, give every indication or appearance of: He seems all right to me. She seems to have forgotten her key again. It seems as if I've never been away at all. He seemed frightened.
SEER|0|n. soothsayer, fortune-teller, sibyl, oracle, prophet, prophetess, augur, vaticinator, prophesier, clairvoyant, psychic, crystal-gazer, star-gazer: The seer foretold a grave famine and much suffering in the land.
SELL|0|v. 1 vend, transfer, convey (title), trade, barter, exchange, dispose of: Sorry, but I sold that car last week. 2 market, deal in, merchandise, trade in, traffic in, peddle, vend, hawk, handle, retail, carry, stock, furnish, supply, offer, Colloq push, Slang Brit flog: We no longer sell that model. She has a shop selling second-hand clothes. 3 Often, sell out. betray, inform against, deliver up, give away, Slang rat on, grass on, tell on, tattle on, sell down the river, blow the whistle on, double-cross, Brit shop: He swore he'd get the man who sold him. 4 promote, push, put across or over: He couldn't sell sand to a beach flea. 5 be sold on. persuaded,convinced, won over: After seeing that film, I was sold on a holiday in Mexico.
SEND|0|v. 1 Sometimes, send off. dispatch or despatch, commission, charge, depute, delegate, assign: The pope sent an emissary to London. 2 communicate, transmit, convey, deliver, consign, address to, mail, post, fax, remit, ship, forward; broadcast, telecast, televise, radio, telegraph: The message is being sent to all concerned. 3 release, discharge, shoot, propel, fire, fling, project, hurl; cast, throw, toss, let fly: With a great burst of flame the satellite was sent into orbit. 4 delight, please, charm, enrapture, stir, thrill, move, electrify, Slang turn (someone) on: That saxophone solo really sends me. 5 send down. imprison, incarcerate, send away, jail or Brit also gaol Slang US send up (the river): If she doesn't mend her ways, she'll be sent down. 6 send for. call for, summon, order, request, ask for: I have sent for a taxi which should be here shortly. 7 send forth or out. emit, radiate, discharge, give off, exude, grow: The object sent forth a strange phosphorescent glow. In the spring, the vine sends forth tendrils. 8 send off. send (someone) away, send (someone) away or off with a flea in his or her ear, dismiss, discharge, send (someone) packing, send (someone) about his or her business, Colloq give (someone) his or her walking papers, Slang give (someone) the brushoff, US give (someone) the brush: I went to the office as you instructed, but they just sent me off with no explanation. 9 send up. a lampoon, satirize, burlesque, parody, make fun of, Colloq take off, spoof, Brit take the mickey out of: In Britain one of the enduring forms of humour is in sending up the government. b imprison, incarcerate, send away, jail or Brit also gaol, Slang US send up the river: He was sent up for insider trading.
SHAM|0|n. 1 fake, fraud, counterfeit, imitation, hoax, humbug, pretence, forgery, copy, imposture, Colloq phoney or US also phony: Their call for reform is a sham, as they have no intention of disturbing the status quo. --adj. 2 fake, fraudulent, counterfeit, imitation, paste, simulated, false, make-believe, fictitious, made-up, bogus, spurious, mock, ersatz, artificial, synthetic, Colloq phoney or US also phony, pseudo: He sat there feigning interest, a sham smile on his face.
SHED|0|n. lean-to, shelter, structure, addition, penthouse, hut, shack, stall, booth, pen, cote, hutch: The tools are in the shed alongside the barn.
SHIN|0|v. Usually, shin up. climb, clamber up, scramble up, scale, US shinny up: The lad shinned up the flag-pole carrying the banner.
SHIP|0|n. 1 vessel, (ocean or passenger) liner, steamer, wind-jammer, cutter: The statue is dedicated to the men who go down to the sea in ships. --v. 2 send, move, ferry, transport, deliver, carry, dispatch or despatch, freight, haul, truck, cart: You need a specialized company that ships computers and other delicate equipment. 3 ship out. leave, depart, embark, set sail, take off, get out, quit, Slang scram: You'll ship out if you know what's good for you.
SHOO|0|interjection. 1 Scat!, Go away!, Away with you!, Be off!, Get out!, Begone!, Colloq Get lost!, Beat it!, Scram!: I shouted 'Shoo!' and the chickens scattered. --v. 2 Often, shoo away or off. scare off, frighten away, drive away, force to leave: She shoos away anyone who disturbs her while she is painting.
SHOP|0|n. 1 store, boutique, department store: Would you stop at the shop and buy some lettuce? 2 workshop, machine shop: Henry gained experience in operating a lathe at my father's shop. --v. 3 betray, inform on or against, Slang peach on, rat on, snitch on, blow the whistle on: The police persuaded Luke to shop his accomplices in exchange for a lighter sentence. 4 shop for. buy, purchase, seek, look for, research: I've been shopping for a new dishwasher.
SHOT|0|n. 1 discharge, shooting: The town was captured without a shot being fired. 2 bullet, ball, slug, cannon-ball, buckshot, pellet, projectile, missile: A dumdum bullet is a piece of soft shot with a hollowed-out nose. 3 attempt, try, opportunity, chance, go, essay, endeavour, guess, conjecture, Colloq stab, crack, whack: You are allowed three shots at the answer. 4 marksman, markswoman, sharpshooter, sniper, rifleman: Geraghty is an excellent shot and favourite for an Olympic gold. 5 photograph, snapshot, picture, Colloq snap, photo: Miller took some excellent action shots using stroboscopic lighting. 6 injection, inoculation, vaccination: The doctor gave me a flu shot this morning. 7 drink, jigger, tot, dram, nip, spot, swallow, Colloq finger, swig, slug, snort: Will you have a shot of whisky with me, Muldoon? 8 (space) launch or launching: The moon shot scheduled for today has been postponed owing to technical difficulties. 9 call the shots. run or direct or manage or administer or control things or affairs or matters, run the show, rule the roost, be in command or the driver's seat: Ravelli calls the shots around here, and don't you forget it. 10 like a shot. quickly, swiftly, rapidly, speedily, hurriedly, hastily, at once, like a flash, immediately, instantly, instantaneously, Colloq in two shakes of a lamb's tail, like greased lightning, before you can say 'Jack Robinson': All I had to do was mention ice-cream, and the children were in here like a shot. 11 (not) by a long shot. no way, under no circumstances, by no means, on no account, by no chance, never: You ask if he can get elected and my response is, 'Not by a long shot'. 12 shot in the arm. boost, stimulus, encouragement, incentive, inducement, provocation, motivation: The team needs a shot in the arm to improve morale.
SHOW|0|v. 1 display, present, expose, demonstrate, indicate, exhibit, manifest, (lay) bare, disclose, reveal, betray, make known, divulge, register, express, make clear or plain or manifest, elucidate, clarify, explain: Show your identification as you enter. Your persistent refusal to associate with Dominic shows how you feel very clearly. They showed me how the new machine works. 2 escort, accompany, conduct, usher, lead, guide, direct; steer: Please show Mr Sorenson to his table. 3 prove, demonstrate, confirm, corroborate, verify, substantiate, bear out, certify, authenticate: This signature shows that the will was signed personally by your father. 4 teach, instruct, tell, inform, let (someone) in on, give (someone) an idea of: Would you please show me how to use this washing-machine? 5 appear, become or be visible, peek through, can or may be seen: The floor was showing through a hole in the carpet. 6 exhibit, reveal, indicate, display, register: A thermometer shows the temperature, a barometer the atmospheric pressure. 7 make an appearance, appear, show up, arrive, come: Do you really think that the Jack Nicholson will show at the club tonight? 8 represent, symbolize, depict, portray, picture, illustrate: This drawing shows what happens to children who bite their fingernails. 9 present, play, put on, stage, screen; be (being) presented or played or playing or put on or staged or screened: They are showing The Maltese Falcon at the local cinema. What is showing there tomorrow? 10 grant, accord, bestow: They finally showed mercy and let the hostages go. 11 show off. make an exhibit or a spectacle of, flaunt, advertise, display, parade; pose, swagger, posture, boast, brag, US and Canadian grandstand: They invited us to show off their new house. Quilty shows off too much for my taste. 12 show up. a expose, give away, reveal: His collection of animal trophies shows him up for what he really is. b stand out, be conspicuous, be noticeable, contrast: The white dress shows up n...
SHUN|0|v. avoid, keep or shy away from, steer clear of, eschew, shrink from, fight shy of, run or turn (away) from, flee or escape from; forgo, give up; disdain, spurn, rebuff, reject, cold-shoulder, give the cold shoulder to: After her experience, Penelope shunned the company of men for several years.
SHUT|0|v. 1 close, fasten, secure, shut up; lock, bolt, seal: Come in and shut the door. 2 shut down. close down, discontinue, cease, suspend, halt, leave off, shut up; switch or turn or shut off, stop: We shut down operations at the Enfield factory last week. Make sure you shut down the machinery before leaving. 3 shut in. a confine, seclude, keep in, pen, fence in, secure: We shut the dog in before we went out. b See 6, (a), below. 4 shut off. a switch or turn off, shut down, Colloq kill, douse, cut (off): They shut off the lights while I was shaving. b separate, isolate, seclude, segregate, sequester, bar, shut out, cut off, send to Coventry: The more violent cases are shut off in another wing. c close (off), shut (down): To save on heating, we shut off part of the house in the winter. 5 shut out. a exclude, eliminate, bar, debar, lock out, ban, keep out or away, disallow, prohibit: Aliens without work permits are shut out from employment. We shut out all hooligans and rowdies. b keep out, screen, exclude, block out, cut out: This window shade shuts out the direct sunlight. c screen, mask, hide, conceal, veil, cover: The house is shut out from view by the hedge. 6 shut up. a confine, shut in, coop (up), cage (in), bottle up, box in; imprison, jail, incarcerate, intern, immure: People suspected of being subversives were shut up during the war. b silence, keep quiet, stifle, mute, gag, shush, Chiefly Brit quieten: As soon as Colin wants to say something, Sidonie shuts him up. c See 1, above. d See 2, above. --adj. 7 closed (up), sealed (up), locked (up), bolted, fastened: There is not much hope of penetrating their shut minds on this issue.
SICK|0|adj. 1 Chiefly Brit nauseated, queasy, sick to one's stomach, squeamish, qualmish; seasick, carsick, airsick, Colloq green around the gills: Patrick felt a bit sick after the rough ferry crossing. 2 ill, unwell, unhealthy, sickly, indisposed, infirm, ailing, diseased, afflicted, Colloq under the weather, on the sick-list, poorly, laid up, not (feeling) up to snuff: If you feel sick, you'd best see a doctor. I've been sick for a week. 3 affected, troubled, stricken, heartsick, wretched, miserable, burdened, weighed down: I was sick with worry to learn of the problems you have been having with your business. 4 mad, crazy, insane, deranged, disturbed, neurotic, unbalanced, psychoneurotic, psychotic, Colloq mental, US off ((one's) rocker or trolley): Anyone who could have committed such a crime must be sick. 5 peculiar, unconventional, strange, weird, odd, bizarre, grotesque, macabre, shocking, ghoulish, morbid, gruesome, stomach-turning, sadistic, masochistic, sado-masochistic, Colloq kinky, bent, far-out, US off: In 30 years as a policeman, I've seen some sick things, but this is the end. 6 sickened, shocked, put out, upset, appalled, disgusted, revolted, repulsed, offended, repelled, nauseated; annoyed, chagrined, irritated: She was sick at what she saw in the army field hospital. The way you do things sometimes makes me sick. 7 Sometimes, sick of. (sick and) tired, bored, weary, Colloq fed up with: Don't you get sick of telling them the same thing so many times?
SIDE|0|n. 1 Sometimes, sides. flank(s), edge(s), verge, margin(s), rim, brim, brink, border(s); bank; boundary or boundaries, perimeter, periphery, limit(s): This side of the road is in West Sussex, the other in East Sussex. The sides of the swimming-pool are tiled. 2 surface, face, plane; facet: The smallest possible number of sides of a pyramid is four. 3 faction, interest, party, part, sect, camp, (point of) view, viewpoint, aspect, opinion, standpoint, stand, cause, angle, position, attitude, school, philosophy: Which side do you support in the controversy? 4 team; string, squad; American football and Association Football or Soccer and Cricket eleven, Australian Rules football eighteen, Baseball nine, Basketball five, Gaelic football and Rugby Union fifteen, Rugby League thirteen: Whichever side Craig is on seems likely to win. The local side is now coming out onto the field. 5 affectation, pretension, haughtiness, arrogance, insolence, pretentiousness, airs: Chauncy puts on a bit too much side for my taste. 6 side by side. together, jointly, cheek by jowl: These paintings should not have been hung side by side. 7 take sides. show preference, be partial, show favouritism: A judge must avoid taking sides. --adj. 8 secondary, incidental, subordinate, tangential, subsidiary, indirect, ancillary, marginal, lesser, minor, unimportant, inconsequential, inconsiderable, insignificant: The main point is that he refuses to cooperate, and his reasons are entirely a side issue. 9 auxiliary, secondary: We live in a quiet side-road just off the High Street. --v. 10 side with. take sides with, show preference for, be partial to, show favouritism to or for, support, favour, prefer, go in or along with, join ((up) with), ally with, be or become allied with, Colloq US throw in with, team up with: You can be sure that Kenneth will always side with the favourite candidate.
SIFT|0|v. 1 strain, sieve, riddle, filter, screen, bolt; winnow, separate, weed out, sort out, select, choose, pick: It is not easy to sift out the promising manuscripts. 2 examine, analyse, study, probe, screen, scrutinize, investigate: The police are sifting the evidence of the witnesses.
SIGH|0|v. 1 breathe, sough; suspire: Troilus sighed forth his soul to the tent where sleeping Cressid lay. 2 sigh for. bemoan, lament or mourn or grieve or weep for, bewail; yearn or pine for: Now and then, all of us sigh for the good old days. --n. 3 murmur, exhalation, sound; suspiration: I gave a sigh of relief as the train left the station.
SIGN|0|n. 1 token, symbol, indication, mark, signal, indicator; notice: I interpreted the shouts of the crowd as a sign that I had won the race. 2 movement, gesture, motion, signal, cue, gesticulation: She made a sign motioning me to come over. 3 trace, indication, evidence, mark, clue, hint, suggestion, vestige: She waited for an hour but there was no sign of him. 4 device, mark, symbol, representation, emblem, trade mark, badge, brand, stamp, seal, ideogram, ideograph, lexigram, phonogram, grapheme, hieroglyph, cartouche, rebus, logo(type), colophon, ensign, standard, banner, flag; monogram, initials, cipher or cypher: Sir Roger fought under the sign of a rampant lion. 5 signboard, advertisement, placard, poster, US broadside; shingle, notice, announcement: You can't miss the huge supermarket sign at the corner. 6 omen, augury, warning, forewarning, foreboding, portent, indication, writing on the wall, prophecy, prognostication, foreshadowing: We took the rumbling as a sign of an imminent earthquake. --v. 7 autograph, put one's signature on or to, inscribe, countersign, endorse, witness, put or set one's hand to, mark; sign on the dotted line; Colloq US put one's John Hancock on or to: I have already signed the petition, have you? The painting is valueless unless signed by the artist. 8 sign away. forgo, relinquish, give up, abandon, abandon or quit claim to, waive, release, surrender, dispose of, sacrifice, get rid of: With one stroke of the pen, he signed away most of his fortune. 9 sign off. close down, discontinue (broadcasting, writing a letter, etc.): It is midnight, time for us to sign off till tomorrow. 10 sign on or up. a enrol, enlist, sign up (for), register, volunteer, join (up), contract: I signed on to be a bodyguard, not a nursemaid. b enrol, enlist, hire, employ, put under contract, retain, engage, take on, Colloq take on board, bring aboard: We signed up three new engineers this week. 11 sign over. assign, consign, transfer, make over, deliver, give, don...
SILT|0|n. 1 deposit, sediment, alluvium, ooze, sludge: The irrigation pumps get clogged up with silt. --v. 2 Usually, silt up or over. become clogged or choked or obstructed or dammed or congested: The channel silts up and has to be dredged yearly so that the boats can pass through.
SING|0|v. 1 chant, intone, carol, vocalize, trill, croon, pipe, chirp, warble; chorus; yodel: It was a wonderful spring day and Barbara felt like singing. Can you sing On the Road to Mandalay ? 2 whistle, pipe, peep: I have just bought a singing kettle. 3 tell, tattle, name names, Slang rat, snitch, squeal, blow the whistle, peach, spill the beans: They found out that Johnny had been singing to the cops about the bank job.
SINK|0|v. 1 founder, submerge, go down, go under, plunge, descend, be engulfed: The ship was struck below the water-line and sank in minutes. 2 subside, cave in, collapse, subside, settle, drop, fall in, go down, slip away: The earth suddenly sank beneath our feet. 3 descend, go down, drop, fall, move down or downward(s), go down to or on: The parachute slowly sank to the ground. When he saw the statue move, he sank to his knees, terrified. 4 decline, weaken, worsen, degenerate, subside, deteriorate, flag, fail, diminish, die, expire; languish; Colloq go downhill: Grandfather, sinking fast, summoned the family to his bedside. 5 disappear, vanish, fade away, evaporate; set, go down, descend, drop: After a meteoric rise, many rock stars sink into oblivion. As the sun sank slowly in the west, we returned to our hotel to reminisce about our day at the pyramids. 6 settle, precipitate, descend, drop: After a few minutes, the sand sinks to the bottom. 7 bore, put down, drill, dig, excavate, drive: A special shaft will be sunk just for ventilating the mine. 8 submerge, immerse, plunge: He sank his hand deep into the mud and came up with a small box. 9 stoop, bend, get, go, lower or humble oneself: I never dreamt that he would sink so low as to beg in the streets. 10 invest, venture, risk, put: He sank his life's savings into his son's business, only to see it go bankrupt. 11 sink in. be understood, penetrate, register, make an impression on, get through to: How many times do I have to tell you in order for it to sink in? --n. 12 basin, wash-basin, wash-bowl, lavabo; Church font, stoup, piscina: The kitchen has a large double sink. 13 cesspool, cesspit, pit, hell-hole, den of iniquity, sink-hole, Colloq dive: We found him playing piano in some sink frequented by the worst element of society.
SITE|0|n. 1 location, place, plot, plat, spot, locale, area, milieu, neighbourhood, locality, purlieus, placement, position; situation, orientation: A site near that of ancient Pergamum has been acquired for the building. The site alongside the river has much to recommend it. --v. 2 locate, position, place, put, situate, install or instal: The building has been sited to take maximum advantage of the sun.
SIZE|0|n. 1 magnitude, largeness, bigness, bulk, extent, scope, range, dimensions, proportions, measurement(s), expanse, area, square footage, volume, mass, weight; hugeness, immensity, greatness, vastness, enormousness: How do astronomers determine the distance and size of stellar objects? A shape of extraordinary size suddenly loomed up in the darkness. --v. 2 dimension, measure: The furnishings are sized in proportion to these miniature room displays. 3 size up. assess, judge, evaluate, measure, take the measure of, appraise, assay, make an estimate of, estimate, value, gauge, rate: She looked him up and down, sizing him up as a prospective husband.
SKIM|0|v. 1 Often, skim off. separate, cream, scoop or ladle off, take off, remove: After the water has come to a boil, skim off the scum that has collected on top. 2 Often, skim through or over. scan, flip or thumb or leaf through, skip through, glance at or through, dip into: I only had time to skim through your report, but at a glance it looks good. 3 soar, glide, skate, slide, sail, fly: Along came Calabro on his sailboard, skimming along the tops of the waves.
SKIN|0|n. 1 epidermis, derma, integument, hide, pelt, fleece, fell: Her skin reddens in the sun. How many skins are needed to make a coat? 2 coat, film, coating, crust, incrustation, husk, peel, rind, outside, shell, pellicle, veneer, outer layer, lamina, overlay: The frame is first covered with a tough plastic skin to make it waterproof. --v. 3 flay, strip, decorticate, excoriate: I shall skin that boy alive if I catch him! 4 peel, hull, husk, shell: This machine skins the fruit automatically. 5 abrade, scrape, graze, bark: She skinned her knee on the edge of the coffee table.
SKIP|0|v. 1 leap, cavort, caper, gambol, frisk, prance, jump, hop, romp, bound, dance: Eleanor came skipping down the walk to the house. 2 omit, leave out, pass by, overlook, pass over, avoid, ignore, disregard, steer clear of, cut: In my haste, I skipped over your name. Please skip the reading of the roll today. --n. 3 leap, cavort, caper, gambol, frisk, prance, jump, bound, dance, hop, romp: He had a curious way of walking, giving a little skip before each step. 4 lacuna, gap, omission, avoidance, disregard; miss, Colloq go-by: There was a skip of 32 pages after page 64. If you take my advice, you will give that restaurant a skip.
SLAB|0|n. slice, wedge, piece, hunk, chunk, tranche, Colloq Brit wodge: The keeper threw a large slab of meat into the lion's cage.
SLAM|0|v. 1 shut, fling closed, bang: Gillian said that she hated encyclopedias, and slammed the door in the salesman's face. 2 crash, smash, smack, dash, ram, bang, slap: Not looking where he was going, Newland slammed his car into a street lamp. 3 criticize, attack, vilify, pillory, run down, disparage, denigrate, denounce, put down, flay, pounce on or upon, Colloq shoot down, pan, Chiefly Brit slate: The critics slammed his play because of the way it portrayed women.
SLAP|0|v. 1 smack, cuff, whack, rap; spank; Colloq clout, wallop: He said something extremely rude so she slapped him. 2 flap, slat, whip, beat, bat: Can't you stop that blind from slapping in the wind? 3 fling, toss, splash, hurl, throw, sling: If you slap some paint on it, no one will know the difference. --n. 4 smack, blow, cuff, whack, rap, Colloq clout, wallop: He got a hard slap on the cheek for using foul language. 5 Often, slap in the face. reprimand, reproof, rebuff, criticism, censure, rebuke, shot, thrust, attack, put-down, insult, offence, smack in the eye: The speaker's reference to Anne's paper as 'trivial' was a severe slap in the face. --adv. 6 slap on. exactly, directly, precisely, straight, point-blank, right, squarely, plumb, smack, bang: As usual, Barry's comments were slap on the mark.
SLIM|0|adj. 1 See slender, 1, above. 2 See slender, 2, 3, above. --v. 3 reduce, lose or shed weight, diet, Chiefly US slenderize: I really must slim if I am to fit into my summer clothes.
SLIP|0|v. 1 slide, skid, glide, slither: Waxing the runners helps the sleigh slip along more easily. 2 stumble, lose one's footing or balance, miss one's footing, trip; fall, tumble: Mother slipped on the ice but luckily didn't fall down. 3 Often, slip up. err, blunder, make a mistake, miscalculate, go wrong, botch (up), Slang screw up: He slipped up again by failing to give you your telephone messages. 4 let slip. reveal, divulge, blurt out, leak, let out, disclose, expose, Colloq come out with, blab: He accidentally let slip the news that you were back in town. 5 slip away or by. pass, elapse, vanish, go by: The hours just slipped away when I was with Irena. 6 slip away or off or out. escape, disappear, leave, vanish, steal, go or run away or off or out, break away, get away, give (someone) the slip; sneak away or off or out: After the speech, he slipped away before we could interview him. 7 slip in. enter, get in, sneak in; put in: A field mouse slipped in past the wire netting. I managed to slip in my suggestion before the meeting was adjourned. --n. 8 blunder, error, mistake, fault, oversight, slip of the tongue or pen, inadvertence, indiscretion, impropriety, transgression, peccadillo, faux pas, Colloq slip-up, Chiefly US blooper, Slang Brit boob, bloomer: She made so many slips in the letter that she had to retype it.
SLIT|0|v. 1 split, cut, slash, gash, knife, slice: The bark of the log is first slit OBopen, then carefully peeled back. --n. 2 split, cut, gash, incision, fissure, groove, slash, cleft, aperture, opening: Off-stage, the rest of the actors were watching the audience through a slit in the curtain.
SLOB|0|n. oaf, boor, pig, lout, churl, yahoo, Slang Brit yob, yobbo, Chiefly US galoot or galloot, Slobbovian: He was a complete slob - he never tidied his room, and hardly ever washed.
SLOT|0|n. 1 groove, fissure, notch, slit, opening, hollow, depression, channel, sulcus: Each of these pieces fits into its own slot. Drop a coin in the slot and watch what happens. 2 opening, position, vacancy, job, place, assignment, niche, space, spot, pigeon-hole: We filled that slot in the sales department. They scheduled the new programme into the half-hour slot after the six o'clock news. --v. 3 groove, fissure, notch, slit, hollow out: We slotted the stanchions to accommodate the shelf brackets. 4 assign, schedule, place, position, pigeon-hole, fit: Can we slot this interview into the documentary on China?
SLOW|0|adj. 1 lagging, laggard, dawdling, sluggish, sluggard(ly), slow-moving, leaden, ponderous, unhurried, plodding, snail-like, tortoise-like, torpid, leaden-footed, creeping, crawling; deliberate, slow-paced, leisurely, gradual, easy, relaxed, lax, lackadaisical, lazy, US lallygagging or lollygagging: They walked at a slow pace back to the house. Philip has become a little slower in his old age. 2 gradual, progressive, moderate, perceptible, almost imperceptible, measurable: The church elders have noted a slow decline in moral standards. 3 unhurried, slow-moving, slow-paced: The slow funeral cortege crept through the streets. 4 behindhand, unpunctual: I missed the train because my watch is five minutes slow. 5 late, tardy, behindhand, dilatory, delayed, unpunctual: You were so slow in getting here that everyone has gone. 6 slack, inactive, quiet, sluggish, unproductive: Business is always a bit slow after the holidays. 7 dense, dull, slow-witted, dull-witted, obtuse, backward, bovine, dim, dim-witted, stupid, unresponsive, blockish, cloddish, unintelligent, doltish, simple, stolid, unimaginative, Boeotian, Colloq slow on the uptake, thick, dumb: I'm afraid I'm a bit slow when it comes to particle physics. 8 conservative, unprogressive, old-fashioned, out of date, backward, old-fogyish or old-fogeyish, behind the times, Colloq square, not with it, past it, US out of it: The council has been rather slow in realizing the needs of the community. 9 boring, dull, tiresome, ennuyant, tedious, dead, sleepy, somnolent, torpid, soporific, wearisome, dry-as-dust, uninteresting, monotonous, tame, uneventful, humdrum, Colloq ho-hum, dead, Brit dead-and-alive: This town becomes really slow in the autumn, till the tourists reappear in the spring. 10 reluctant, not quick, unwilling, hesitant, disinclined, averse, loath or loth, indisposed: Even when provoked, Cassie tends to be slow to anger. --adv. 11 slowly, unhurriedly, cautiously, carefully, circumspectly: He failed his test becau...
SLUM|0|n. Often, slums. ghetto, warren, shanty town, US skid row or Skid Road: Many very famous men emerged from the slums of the Lower East Side in New York.
SLUR|0|n. 1 smear, insult, calumny, aspersion, affront, stigma, stain, blot, spot, (black) mark, discredit, insinuation, innuendo, imputation, slander, libel, slight, Colloq put-down: She resents any slur on her husband's character. --v. 2 mumble, misarticulate, garble, stutter, lisp: Some people nowadays slur their speech so badly that one can hardly understand them. 3 slur over. gloss over, pass over, disregard, give short shrift to, ignore: The eulogies at the memorial service slurred over his faults and focused on his accomplishments.
SMUG|0|adj. self-satisfied, complacent, holier-than-thou, self-important, overconfident, conceited: She is a bit too smug about the security of her job and might get a nasty shock some day soon.
SNAG|0|n. 1 hitch, catch, problem, (stumbling) block, stricture, bottleneck, complication, obstacle, impediment, obstruction, hindrance, difficulty, US hang-up: A snag developed that prevented my keeping my promise to you. --v. 2 catch, tear, rip: He snagged his new jacket on a nail.
SNAP|0|v. 1 break (off), separate, crack; cleave, split, fracture, give way, part: The wind snapped off tree branches like matchsticks. The back legs of the chair snapped in two as she sat on it. 2 click; pop; crack: The door snapped shut. 3 Often, snap at. a bite (at), nip, gnash or snatch at: The postman ran down the street, the dog snapping at his heels. b attack, lunge at, lash out (at), snarl at, growl (at), bark (at), be brusque or short or curt (with), Colloq jump down (someone's) throat, fly off the handle (at): Robin is in a bad mood today, snapping at everyone. 4 Usually, snap up or US also off. grab (up), snatch (up), seize, pluck, pounce on or upon, make off with, take (away), capture, catch, get, secure: The people who arrived early at the sale had snapped up all the bargains. 5 shoot, snapshot, photograph, click, catch: He always has his camera with him so that he can snap anything interesting. 6 snap one's fingers at. disdain, scorn, flout, dismiss, contemn, disregard, ignore, defy, mock, deride, thumb one's nose at, Brit cock a snook at: He merely snapped his fingers at the dangers when I mentioned them. 7 snap out of it. recover, come round or around, revive, awaken, wake up, perk up, liven up, cheer up; get a grip or (a) hold on or of oneself, pull oneself together, (re)gain control of oneself: I was feeling very blue yesterday but managed to snap out of it. --n. 8 crack, crackle, pop, click: The lid shut with a snap. 9 spell, period, interval, wave: During that cold snap we thought we were in for a terrible winter. 10 catch, spring catch, (snap-)fastener, fastening, clasp: Do you want snaps or buttons sewn on this shirt? 11 energy, vigour, animation, liveliness, vitality, bounce, alertness, sprightliness, ÷lan, dash, sparkle, verve, Colloq zip, zing, get-up-and-go, pep, pizazz: Granny certainly has a lot of snap left in her. 12 easy job, Slang picnic, US and Canadian breeze: There had been no need for her to worry, for the exam turned out to be a snap. ...
SNIP|0|v. 1 nip, clip, crop, cut, lop, prune, dock: When the blossoms begin to fade, snip them off. --n. 2 cut, slit, gash, slash, incision, nick: We could watch the audience through a small snip in the curtain. 3 bit, scrap, shred, snippet, fragment, cutting, clipping, remnant, morsel: You are welcome to the leftover snips of fabric. 4 snips. scissors, shears, tinsnips: This duct can be cut with the snips.
SNUG|0|adj. cosy, comfortable, intimate, relaxing, restful, warm, sheltered, friendly, easy, homely, casual, Colloq comfy: Curled up on the sofa, Chris looks as snug as a bug in a rug.
SOAR|0|v. 1 rise, fly, hover, float, hang: The glider soared over the hills, catching every updraught. 2 rise, increase, escalate, climb, spiral upwards, shoot up or upwards, rocket, sky-rocket: To counteract inflation, interest rates began to soar.
SOFT|0|adj. 1 yielding, cushiony, plushy, spongy, squeezable, compressible, squashy, squashable, flexible, plastic, pliable, pliant, supple, flexile, flexuous, unstarched: This mattress is much too soft for my back. 2 easy, comfortable, undemanding, Colloq cushy: His uncle got him a soft job at the Labour Ministry. 3 gentle, mild, balmy, pleasant, moderate, warm, halcyon, springlike, summery, restful, tranquil, relaxing, lazy: Alexandra was looking forward to a week in the soft Caribbean climate. 4 subdued, toned or turned down, muted, low, quiet, melodious, mellifluous or mellifluent, mellow, gentle, faint, softened, soothing, smooth: Riley thought she might succumb to the influences of the wine and the soft music and lights. 5 easygoing, tolerant, kind, compassionate, gentle, merciful, lenient, indulgent, permissive, liberal, lax, easy, docile, tame, submissive, deferential, benign, tender-hearted, sympathetic, kind-hearted, kind: Some believe that the jailers were too soft with the criminals. His parents were far too soft. 6 Usually, soft in the head. foolish, silly, simple, Colloq chiefly Brit daft, US off: Kevin must have gone a bit soft in the head if he thinks that Clara still loves him. 7 depressed, declining, in decline, in recession, slow, unprofitable, borderline, questionable, weak: Owing to the stormy, cold summer, the resort business has been soft this year. 8 downy, silky, silken, satiny, furry, fluffy, feathery, fleecy, fuzzy, velvety, smooth (as a baby's bottom): The wool from the lambs is much softer. 9 pastel, pale, delicate, fine, subdued, light, matte or matt, quiet, diffuse(d), soothing: He wanted the bedroom painted in soft shades of greenish blue. 10 harmless, non-addictive: Some consider cannabis a soft drug. 11 fuzzy, woolly, blurred, blurry, foggy, diffuse(d): The soft focus photos of the wedding looked very romantic. 12 weak, feeble, frail, effete, delicate, non-physical, non-muscular, puny, flabby, out of training or condition or shape, pampere...
SOIL|0|v. 1 dirty, stain, begrime, muddy, smear, spot: His shirts were returned by the laundry still soiled. 2 pollute, contaminate, sully, defile, foul, befoul, tarnish, besmirch, disgrace, muddy, smear, blacken; blot: The scandal soiled his previously spotless reputation. --n. 3 dirt, filth, muck, mire, mud, sludge, dregs, refuse; excrement, waste (matter): The soil is carried away by these pipes into the main sewer.
SOLE|0|adj. lone, only, singular, unique, solitary; particular, exclusive, individual, personal: As Susan is the sole surviving heir, she has the right to sell the house if she wishes.
SOLO|0|adv. 1 alone, unaccompanied, on one's own: Jack flew solo for the first time yesterday. --adj. 2 individual, unaccompanied, solitary: Let Eugene play the solo trombone part.
SONG|0|n. 1 tune, air, melody, ditty, number: Together, they wrote some of the most popular songs of this century. 2 for a song. cheaply, inexpensively, at a bargain price: That old book you wanted went for a song at the auction. 3 (old) song and dance. a fuss, to-do, commotion, bother, ado, Colloq flap, performance, Brit kerfuffle: I cannot see why they made such a song and dance of telling us they couldn't come. b evasion, tale, prevarication, (long) story, (long) explanation: To excuse his absence he gave me the old song and dance about his grandmother being ill.
SOON|0|adv. 1 before long, presently, ere long; in the near future, any minute (now), before you know it, in good time, in a little while, in a minute or a moment, momentarily, shortly, anon, in a second, Colloq in a jiffy: Soon another year will have passed. The doctor will be with you soon. 2 quickly, speedily, at once, promptly, immediately, directly, without delay, straightway, straight away, right away, forthwith, in short order, on the double, in two shakes (of a lamb's tail), in a wink, tout de suite, without delay, Colloq pronto, US and Canadian lickety-split: If he doesn't come soon, dinner will be spoilt. 3 quickly, speedily, promptly, swiftly: I'll be there as soon as I can. 4 willingly, lief, gladly, happily, readily: I'd just as soon be left alone, if you don't mind. 5 sooner or later. at some time or other, some time, one day, in time, in due course, eventually, ultimately, in the end, when all is said and done, at the end of the day, in the last or final analysis, at bottom: Don't worry, she'll come home sooner or later. Sooner or later they will have to yield.
SORE|0|adj. 1 painful, sensitive, tender, raw, angry, burning, stinging, smarting, hurting; irritated, inflamed, chafed: My finger is still sore round the cut. 2 sensitive, delicate, tender, embarrassing, awkward, ticklish, touchy, thorny, prickly: Failing to complete medical school is a sore point with her. 3 dire, serious, acute, extreme, critical, urgent, pressing, desperate: He is in sore need of some good advice. 4 angry, angered, annoyed, irritated, vexed, irked, upset, Colloq peeved: Don't get sore at me because you got low marks in your exams. 5 painful, troublesome, grievous, aggrieved, distressing, distressful, harrowing, severe, agonizing, bitter, fierce, burdensome, onerous, heavy, oppressive: Melanie's marital troubles proved a sore trial for her friends. 6 sore straits. difficulty, trouble, distress, danger, dangerous or precarious condition: The business is in sore straits, I fear. --n. 7 injury, damage, swelling, rawness, infection, inflammation, bruise, abrasion, cut, laceration, scrape, burn, canker, ulcer: If that sore on your arm doesn't heal, you'd better see a doctor.
SORT|0|n. 1 kind, variety, type, class, classification, group, category, brand, make, mark, stamp, description, mould, stripe, ilk, feather, kidney, character, nature; manner, species: A 1928 Alfa-Romeo coup÷ is not exactly the right sort of car for a family. Lewis is a person of a different sort. What sort of person is he? 2 kind, type, manner: This sort of behaviour must stop. 3 species, genus, family, phylum, subgenus, subspecies, race, breed, strain, stock, kind, variety, type: Aberdeen Angus is a better sort of beef for steaks. 4 person, individual, lot; thing: He is not really such a bad sort. 5 of sorts. of a sort, of a mediocre or passable or admissible or not (too) bad or fair or sufficiently good or adequate or undistinguished or indifferent kind or quality or proficiency: Yes, one might say that he is a violinist of sorts. 6 out of sorts. not oneself, not up to snuff, unwell, ailing, indisposed, (slightly) ill, low, Colloq off one's feed, under the weather: He is out of sorts after last night's revelries. 7 sort of. See somewhat, above. --v. 8 assort, classify, file, order, rank, grade, class, categorize, separate, divide, combine, merge, arrange, organize, systemize, systematize, catalogue, group, sort out: Sort these names into alphabetical order. 9 describe, characterize, categorize, cast, throw, combine, mould, type: I did not enjoy being sorted together with thieves and murderers. 10 sort out. a organize, set or put straight, straighten out, resolve, tidy (up), clarify, clear up, solve; decide: Someone will have to sort out how we are to proceed. b choose, select, separate, divide: Sort out all the books that you want to keep from those to be donated to the library.
SOSO|0|adj. mediocre, all right, average, undistinguished, passable, not (too) bad or good, adequate, fair (to middling), middling, indifferent, ordinary, tolerable, comme ci, comme úa, modest: Sabrina, whose singing is just so so, will never be a star.
SOUL|0|n. 1 (vital) spirit or force, being, (inner or true) self, essence, psyche, heart, mind, intellect, reason, anima: He finally surrendered, body and soul. 2 person, individual, man, woman, mortal, (human) being: I won't tell a soul about our conversation. What a sweet old soul she is! 3 incarnation, embodiment, personification, typification, essence, quintessence: You can count on me as the soul of discretion. 4 emotion, feeling, sentiment, sincerity, fervour, ardour, warmth, dynamism, vivacity, energy, spirit, vitality, force: Alice puts a lot of soul into her singing, and that comes across to the audience.
SOUR|0|adj. 1 acid, acidic, tart, vinegary, lemony, acidulous or acidulent, acidulated, acescent, acerbic: This apple has a pleasant, slightly sour taste. Do you like sour dill pickles? 2 turned, bad, (gone) off, fermented, curdled, rancid, spoilt or spoiled: If the food is sour, throw it away. 3 disagreeable, unpleasant, distasteful, bad, nasty, bitter, terrible: The poor service and facilities made the entire holiday a very sour experience. 4 acrimonious, bitter, embittered, unpleasant, churlish, ill-natured, ill-tempered, bad-tempered, crusty, curmudgeonly, crabbed, crabby, grouchy, cross, cranky, testy, petulant, impatient, abrupt, nasty, curt, caustic, brusque, peevish, snappish, edgy, sullen, morose, gloomy, discontented: The waitress's sour expression matched her sour disposition. --v. 5 turn, spoil, curdle, go bad or off, ferment: Milk sours quickly in this climate if you don't refrigerate it. 6 embitter, acerbate, disenchant, exasperate, vex, Colloq peeve: Being forced to practise for hours when a child was what soured my enjoyment of playing the piano.
SPAN|0|n. 1 bridge, link, stretch, overpass, Chiefly Brit flyover: We drove across the entire span in less than five minutes. 2 course, extent, interval, stretch, period, time, term, spell: In the short span of six hours we had crossed the Atlantic. --v. 3 cross, stretch over, reach over, extend over, go over, bridge: A rude bridge spans the river at Lexington. Their lives spanned more than a century.
SPAR|0|n. Nautical mast, yard, yard-arm, boom, boomkin, gaff, jigger, mizen, Colloq stick, pole: The first gusts of the storm tore the remaining canvas from the spars.
SPEW|0|v. Often, spew forth or out or up. belch (up or out or forth), vomit (up or forth), regurgitate, spit up or out, spout, discharge, emit, eject, send forth, spurt, gush, throw up or out, disgorge, Slang puke: The volcano spewed forth lava for six days and nights.
SPIN|0|v. 1 revolve, turn, rotate, gyrate, twirl, whirl, twist, reel, pirouette, pivot: The car spun out of control on the ice. Fred spun Ginger around the dance floor. 2 invent, concoct, make up, devise, produce, fabricate; weave, relate, retail, recount, narrate, tell, unfold: Each night, father would spin a new chapter in the yarn of the vagabond princess. 3 be dizzy, suffer vertigo, swim, whirl, be giddy: My head was spinning from so much attention by the media. 4 spin off. separate, derive: The manufacturer spun off two new companies specializing in parts and service. 5 spin out. prolong, protract, drag or draw out, stretch out, perpetuate, continue, extend, keep alive, keep going: The case was spun out for years in the courts. --n. 6 whirl, whirling, twirl, twirling, turn, turning, gyration, reel, pirouette, revolution, revolving, rotation, rotating: He puts a spin on the ball when he throws it. Is the spin of all planets in the same direction? 7 drive, whirl, joyride, ride, tour, excursion, outing, jaunt: On Sunday afternoons we sometimes went for a spin in the car.
SPIT|0|v. 1 expectorate; dribble, salivate, drool, slaver, sputter, splutter; discharge, spew (forth), eject: Spitting is forbidden. Don't you hate people who spit when they talk? The volcano spat huge boulders into the sky. 2 spitting image or spit and image. twin, duplicate, clone, image, counterpart, likeness, copy: She is the spitting image of her mother. --n. 3 spittle, saliva, drool, Technical sputum: A large gobbet of spit clung to his beard.
SPOT|0|n. 1 mark, patch, speck, blot, blotch, blemish, speckle, fleck, particle, mote, macula, smudge, stain, stigma, discoloration, Brit splodge or US also splotch: There's a spot of ink on your shirt. 2 site, place, locale, location, locality, scene, setting, section, area, neighbourhood, quarter: The Coopers picked out a lovely spot to build their new house. 3 morsel, bit, bite, Colloq smidgen or smidgin: Let's stop in here for a spot of tea. 4 predicament, situation, quandary, mess: John said he was in a bit of a spot, and needed to borrow ø20 until the end of the week. 5 spots. eruptions, pimples, acne, pustules, blackheads, comedos or comedones, whiteheads; boils, blains, wens; pock-marks; Old-fashioned US and Canadian hickeys: Teenagers often get spots. --v. 6 see, catch sight of, glimpse, discern, identify, pick out, distinguish, single out, detect, sight, recognize, make out, descry: I think I spotted Molly in the crowd. 7 mark, stain, fleck, speckle, spray, splash, spatter, bespatter, sully, soil, dirty, taint, besmirch, smudge: The car's shiny new paintwork was spotted with mud.
SPUR|0|n. 1 goad, prod, urging, impulse, incitement, instigation, prompting, pressure, stimulus, stimulation, incentive, provocation, inducement, encouragement, motive, motivation: The company paid the workers a bonus for each piece they completed as a spur to productivity. 2 projection, prong, spike, spine, gaff, barb, quill, tine, barbel, barbule, process: The hook has a spur that prevents the fish from disengaging. 3 on the spur of the moment. impetuously, impulsively, unthinkingly, unpremeditatedly, impromptu, on the spot; rashly, thoughtlessly, recklessly, hastily, brashly, incautiously, unexpectedly, suddenly: On the spur of the moment, we decided to fly to Cap d'Antibes for the weekend. --v. 4 goad, prod, urge, egg on, impel, incite, prompt, press, push, pressure or Brit pressurize, stimulate, drive, provoke, induce, encourage, motivate, excite, animate: The sales force are spurred on by the huge bonuses the company offers.
STAB|0|v. 1 stick, puncture, prick, lance, jab, pierce, run through, impale, gore, transfix, knife, bayonet, skewer, spike, spit, spear, pin; plunge, poke, thrust: In the melee, George was stabbed in the arm. It is said that she stabbed a fork into his hand. 2 stab in the back. harm, betray, sell out, double-cross, give the Judas kiss, play false with: As soon as he had left, they stabbed him in the back by phoning the authorities. --n. 3 puncture, jab, thrust, (stab-)wound: The coroner's office reported that the body had six stabs in the abdomen. 4 attempt, try, essay; guess, conjecture: Even if you are wrong, you lose nothing by making a stab at the right answer. 5 pang, twinge, pain, ache, hurt, stitch: Doctor, I get a terrible stab of pain in my side when I turn that way. 6 stab in the back. treachery, betrayal, double-cross, Judas kiss, kiss of death, duplicity: Informing on someone to the tax inspector is a really nasty stab in the back.
STAR|0|n. 1 celestial or heavenly body; evening star, morning star, falling star, shooting star, comet; nova, supernova: It was a beautiful clear night and the sky was full of stars. 2 celebrity, personage, dignitary, VIP, name, somebody, luminary, leading light, leading man or woman or lady, lead, principal, diva, prima donna, hero, heroine, idol, superstar, Technical slang top banana, headliner, Colloq big shot, (big) draw, celeb, big name: Clancy knows many of the big stars personally. --adj. 3 principal, major, leading, important, celebrated, famous, famed, prominent, eminent, pre-eminent, distinguished, brilliant, illustrious, unequalled, peerless, matchless, incomparable, unrivalled, inimitable, unmatched, unparalleled, top, foremost: A new local rock band was the star attraction at the Hippodrome. --v. 4 feature or be featured; play or act or take the lead or the leading part or role: He began his career starring in spaghetti westerns.
STAY|0|v. 1 remain, stop, continue, tarry, wait, stand, Colloq freeze: Stay where you are or I'll shoot! 2 remain, stop, lodge, sojourn, abide, reside, dwell, live, visit: I heard that Sheila was back in town, staying at her aunt's. 3 keep, remain, continue to be: I was having trouble staying awake. 4 stop, arrest, thwart, prevent, put an end to, halt, interrupt, block, check; curb, retard, slow, impede, foil, obstruct, hamper, hinder, discourage, deter; delay, postpone, put off, discontinue, defer, Technical prorogue: Only one man has the authority to stay the execution. What can be done to stay the advance of the killer bees? 5 linger, loiter, wait, tarry, stop, remain, Archaic bide: I like this part of the world and plan to stay here a while. --n. 6 stop, stoppage, arrest, set-back, check, halt, prevention, discontinuance, discontinuation, interruption, blockage, delay, postponement, deferment, deferral, reprieve: Have you been able to arrange a stay in carrying out the sentence? 7 stopover, sojourn, visit, stop: We really enjoyed our stay at Fred's house in Fort Lauderdale.
STEM|0|n. 1 trunk, stalk, stock; Technical peduncle, pedicel, petiole, shoot: Three white blossoms are borne on each stem of the plant. 2 bows, prow, stem-post: The ship shook from stem to stern. --v. 3 come, arise, develop, derive, issue, flow, generate, originate, spring, emanate, sprout, grow, descend, result, proceed: The dispute stems from basic differences in the ways the parties regard property.
STEP|0|n. 1 movement, move: The steps of the dance were very intricate. 2 footfall, footstep, tread: I think I hear father's step on the stair. 3 footstep, footprint, trace, spoor, track, trace, mark, impression; imprint, vestige: In his master's steps he trod, where the snow lay dinted. 4 action, initiative, measure, activity, procedure, move, motion: What steps are needed to improve the situation? 5 stage, move, gradation, degree, progression: Can we not proceed from one to the other in easy steps? 6 pace, footstep, stride: My mother's cottage is just a few steps away, at the bottom of the garden. 7 in step (with). in keeping (with), in harmony or agreement (with), harmonious (with), agreeable (with), according (with or to), concordant (with), attuned (to), in tune (with), consonant (with), consistent (with), appropriate (to), fitting (for); conventional, traditional, routine: Do you think that her ideas of discipline are in step with the times? I am not sure they are in step at all. 8 out of step (with). out of keeping (with), out of or not in harmony or agreement (with), not harmonious (with), not agreeable (with), not according (with or to), discordant (with), not concordant (with), not attuned (to), out of tune (with), not consonant (with), inconsistent (with), inappropriate (to), not fitting (for); offbeat, unconventional, eccentric, Slang kinky: You must admit that her views are out of step with the committee's. 9 step by step. gradually, a step at a time, slowly, steadily: The way to unravel the problem is to analyse it step by step. 10 steps. a course, way, route, direction, path, movement, passage; journey, journeying, travels, travelling: After leaving the village, I directed my steps southward, towards the coast. b stairway, stairs, stair, staircase, stepladder, US and Canadian stoop: Claire walked down the steps to greet me. 11 take steps. proceed, move, begin or start or commence to act or to take action, do something: We must take steps to prevent this from...
STEW|0|n. 1 gallimaufry, goulash, salmagundi, hash, mess, olla podrida, olio, mixture, mishmash, Brit hotchpotch, US also hodgepodge: His book is a stew of many different opinions, none of them his own. 2 state of excitement or alarm or anxiety, dither, pother, bother, lather, sweat, Colloq tizzy, state: She really worked herself up into a stew over the boy Paula is engaged to. --v. 3 simmer, seethe, agonize, fret, dither, chafe, burn, smoulder, Colloq get steamed (up) (over or about), work (oneself) (up) into a sweat or lather or state (over): Paula's father is all stewed up over her leaving school to get married.
STIR|0|v. 1 Often, stir up. agitate, shake (up), mix (up), scramble, amalgamate, mingle, commingle, intermingle, merge, blend, fold (in), churn (up), beat, whip (up): Stir all the ingredients together. 2 move, rise, arise, get up, bestir (oneself), be up and about, Colloq get a move on, get moving, get a wiggle on, shake a leg, look or step lively, look alive, stir one's stumps: It is about time you were up and stirring. 3 disturb, trouble, affect, upset, stimulate, activate: The play stirred the conscience of the king. Mention 'diet' to Roberta and you'll stir up a wasp's nest. 4 Often, stir up. motivate, encourage, stimulate, energize, galvanize, electrify, animate, excite, inspire, provoke, move, rouse, arouse, get, prompt, urge, incite, spur, prod, induce, persuade, convince: What will it take to stir the council to take action? The usual rabble-rousers were there, stirring up the crowd. 5 Often, stir up. awaken, rouse, (cause to) recall or call to mind, revive, resuscitate: Those photographs stir up so many old memories! --n. 6 bustle, activity, movement, stirring, action, commotion, flurry, confusion, tumult, ado, to-do, fuss, disturbance, excitement, hubbub, Colloq Brit kerfuffle: There was a stir at the door, which was flung wide to allow Kitty to sweep in. The news of her marriage caused quite a stir. 7 prison, jail or Brit also gaol, jail-house, clink, penitentiary, lock-up, Military Brit glasshouse, US brig, Slang chiefly Brit quod, US big house, pen, slammer, can, calaboose: He claims he's in stir for something he didn't do.
STOP|0|v. 1 discontinue, halt, terminate, cease, break off, end, put an end or a stop to, bring to a stop or a halt or an end or a close, give up, quit, leave off, finish, conclude, desist (from), refrain (from), abandon; draw to a close, be over, come to a stop or a halt or an end or a close; Colloq cut (out), lay off, Brit pack in: Stop shouting, I'm not deaf. The car stopped suddenly. Will the fighting ever stop? 2 bring to a stop or a halt or a standstill, check, cut off; arrest, suppress, restrain, thwart; block, bar, obstruct, dam, keep or hold back, prevent, hinder; slow, impede, stem, stanch or staunch: The main problem was how to stop drug trafficking. Can we stop the river from flooding? This tourniquet will stop the bleeding. 3 Often, stop up. obstruct, block (up), jam (up), plug (up), clog (up), choke (up), stuff (up), fill (up), close (up or off): The drain was all stopped up with paper. 4 peter out, be over, end: He gave me an injection and the pain finally stopped. 5 pause, break, take a break, interrupt, tarry; sojourn, rest, stay, put up, lodge, visit, stop off or in or over; pull over, pull up: I'd like to stop for a cup of coffee. I stopped at The Bell Inn on my way here. We stopped short at the sign. --n. 6 halt, end, cessation, termination, ban, prohibition; close, standstill, conclusion: The new law put a stop to door-to-door selling. We must bring that practice to a stop. 7 stay, sojourn, visit, break, rest, stopover, US layover: We thoroughly enjoyed our stop in Brighton. 8 stopping-place, station, terminal, stage, terminus, US and Canadian depot: There is a bus stop in the next street. 9 blockage, blocking, stopping (up), stoppage, closing up, obstruction, block: A stop in the water supply was soon cleared up.
STOW|0|v. pack, store, load, deposit, put (away), place; cram, stuff, wedge, bundle, jam; hide, secrete, conceal, cache, Colloq stash (away): We stowed our gear the moment we went aboard. They couldn't stow another thing in the basement. Where did he stow the pistol when the police searched the place?
STUB|0|n. 1 butt, end, stump, tail (end), remnant, Colloq Brit fag-end: He produced a stub of pencil from his pocket and began to make notes. 2 counterfoil; receipt: You will need your ticket stub for any claim.
STUN|0|n. 1 daze, numb, benumb, knock out: I was stunned by an unexpected blow to the solar plexus. 2 astonish, daze, paralyse, stagger, stupefy, overcome, overwhelm, astound, jar, shock, jolt, strike dumb, amaze, confound, bewilder, take (someone's) breath away, Colloq shake up, bowl over, discombobulate, flabbergast: The children were stunned to hear that their mother had been arrested.
SUIT|0|v. 1 adapt, accommodate, fit, adjust, tailor, make appropriate or suitable: It will require some reorganization to suit the office space to our needs. 2 please, satisfy, fill (someone's) needs, gratify, be acceptable or suitable or convenient to or for, befit; conform to: Choose whichever room suits you. The schedule does not suit my personal plans at all. --n. 3 jacket and trousers or skirt, outfit, uniform, ensemble, costume, habit; garb, clothing, clothes, livery: He showed up wearing a new silk suit. 4 lawsuit, action, case, proceeding, process, cause, trial; litigation: I do not want to enter into a suit over the damage to my car. 5 petition, plea, request, entreaty, prayer, solicitation, application, appeal, supplication; courtship: The king rejected all suits for his daughter's hand in marriage.
SULK|0|v. mope, brood, pout, be sullen or moody or ill-humoured: I wish you'd get a job instead of sulking about the house all day.
SURE|0|adj. 1 certain, assured, convinced, persuaded, positive, definite, unwavering, unswerving, unflinching, steadfast, steady, unshakeable or unshakable, confident, satisfied, undeviating, unfaltering: How can you be so sure in your opinion that Jack did it? I'm sure I've met you before. 2 established, firm, solid, trusty, stable, steadfast, secure, safe, trustworthy, reliable: I never travel without my sure companions, courage and caution. 3 accurate, reliable, dependable, tried and true, unfailing, infallible, foolproof, effective, Colloq sure-fire: A high temperature is a sure sign of illness. 4 certain, inevitable, indubitable, unavoidable, ineluctable, inescapable, guaranteed: He who enters the Devil's Cave meets sure death.
SWAY|0|v. 1 wave, waver, swing, sweep, oscillate, undulate, reel, totter, swing or move to and fro or back and forth or from side to side or backwards and forwards, rock, fluctuate; bend, lean: The reeds swayed in the breeze. 2 move, incline, divert, tend, veer, tilt, lean, slant, bias; influence, persuade, impress, win over, bring round, convince, talk into: The wind is causing the trees to sway towards the east. We tried to sway him to our way of thinking. --n. 3 sweep, wave, swing, (period of) oscillation, libration: There must be a sway of twenty feet in the top of that skyscraper. 4 influence, control, power, command, authority, dominion, rule, sovereignty, leadership, mastery; grip, clutches, grasp: His ambition was to get the mountain people under his sway.
TACK|0|n. 1 pin, push-pin, nail, Brit drawing-pin, tin-tack, US thumbtack: Someone keeps stealing the tacks from the bulletin board. 2 fastening, stitch, baste: Could you put some tacks in the hem so I can try on the skirt? 3 direction, bearing, heading, course, approach; way, path, procedure, method, technique, attack, line: Our new tack was due east. They may have to take a different tack to win the contract. 4 tackle, gear, equipment, equipage, harness, saddlery, fittings, fitments, kit, outfit, rig, rigging, accoutrements or US also accouterments: He has ordered all new tack for his horse. --v. 5 pin, attach, fasten, secure, join, couple, unite, combine, stick, fix, affix, staple, nail, skewer, peg, screw, bolt, rivet; baste, stitch, sew, bind, tie; paste, glue, cement, solder, braze, weld: You were only supposed to tack these together lightly, but now I can't pull them apart. 6 change direction or heading or course , Nautical go or come about; zigzag, veer off or away, Nautical beat: We tacked quickly to avoid striking the buoy. 7 tack on. add (on), append, annex, attach, tag on: When they tacked on a rider to the contract, we refused to sign it.
TACT|0|n. discretion, diplomacy, sensitivity, savoir faire, judgement, politesse, delicacy, finesse, cleverness, prudence, care, carefulness, dexterity, dexterousness, discernment, judiciousness, adroitness, skill, acumen, acuteness, perception, understanding, consideration, thoughtfulness, politeness: You can count on Robert to handle such matters with consummate tact.
TAIL|0|n. 1 appendage, brush (of a fox), scut (of a hare, rabbit, of deer), dock, caudal fin (of a fish), uropygium (of a bird), pope's or parson's nose, tailpiece, flag: I just caught a glimpse of the fox's tail as it leapt the fence. 2 rear end, tail-end, backside, buttocks, croup, rump, posterior(s), bottom, Colloq behind, hinie, Taboo slang Brit bum, arse, US ass: When I catch you, I'll kick your tail! 3 reverse: The obverse of a coin is the head, the reverse is the tail. --v. 4 dog, follow, trail, stalk, shadow, track: We tailed the suspect from Newcastle to New Mexico.
TAKE|0|v. 1 grip, seize, grasp, clasp, get, get or take hold of, grab, snatch, clutch, catch, capture, obtain, lay hold of, lay (one's) hands on, procure, acquire, gain (possession of), take possession of, secure, win, carry off, abduct, Colloq nab: The police took him into custody. He takes what he can get. When it comes to ineptitude, Sue certainly takes the prize. 2 pick, select, choose, opt for, settle or decide or fasten on or upon: When you get to the fork, take the road to the left. 3 appropriate, arrogate, extract, carry off or away, steal, purloin, pilfer, filch, palm, rob, shoplift, pocket, remove, walk off or away with, run or make off or away with; embezzle, misappropriate, peculate; plagiarize, pirate; Colloq lift, swipe, snitch, Chiefly Brit pinch, nick, Slang knock off, hook, rip off, liberate, US boost, crook: They took what didn't belong to them. 4 reserve, book, engage; hire, rent, lease: He took a room in a small hotel, where he began to write detective fiction. 5 acquire, get, adopt; assume, derive, obtain, draw, receive, inherit: He has taken his bad manners from you. The film takes its title from the book. 6 accept, receive, bear, withstand, stand, endure, weather, tolerate, abide, brave, go through, undergo, suffer, submit to, swallow, Colloq put up with, brook, stomach, Brit stick: She took the news about Leon's relapse quite well. I have taken quite enough from you already. 7 assume, bear, undertake, adopt, arrogate; acknowledge, accept: Kevin took full responsibility for the mistake. 8 believe, think, judge, deem, hold, feel; take for, assess (as), consider (as), regard (as), view (as), accept (for): I take people to be honest till proven otherwise. She took him for a fool when they first met. 9 carry, convey, bear, transport, bring, deliver, ferry; haul, cart: Will this train take me to Aylesbury? They took the bicycle to Old Lyme in a van. 10 take up, study, be involved or occupied in or with, apply oneself to, learn; read, Colloq tackle: I cann...
TALE|0|n. 1 story, narrative, report, account, record, chronicle, history, narration, recital, anecdote: We were brought up on tales of the supernatural. Her tale of what happened does not agree with the facts. 2 falsehood, lie, fiction, fib, fabrication, untruth, falsification, exaggeration, Colloq tall tale or story, (cock-and-bull) story, US fish story: He told some tale about having been captured by urban guerrillas. 3 rumour, gossip, slander, allegation, tittle-tattle, libel, story, US chiefly naval scuttlebutt: I have been hearing tales about wild parties at the neighbours' again.
TALK|0|v. 1 Sometimes, talk in. speak (in), use, communicate in, converse in, express (oneself) in, discourse in: If you talk English I might understand. 2 confer, consult, parley, have a (little) talk, (have a) chat, confabulate, Colloq confab, Slang US rap: I think we ought to talk before you decide which offer to accept. 3 chatter, prate, prattle, jabber, blather or blether, gibber, jibber-jabber, cackle, babble, patter, rattle on, go on, Brit natter, witter, rabbit on, Colloq gab, Slang gas, jaw , US run off at the mouth: They talk continuously, mostly about nothing. 4 chat, gossip, palaver, Slang chew the fat or the rag, shoot the breeze, US chin, schmooze, rap, have a bull session, bat the breeze, shoot the bull: We were just sitting around talking when Tom suggested we go for a swim. 5 inform, confess, give the game away, blab, Colloq come clean, Slang rat, squeal, sing, spill the beans, Brit grass: If they give him the third degree, you can be sure he'll talk. 6 speak, give or deliver a speech or a talk or an address, lecture: I believe that Professor Hale is talking at the County Library tonight. 7 talk about or over or of. discuss, confer about or on, parley about: I don't want to talk about football all the time. Can't we talk it over? She talks only of you. 8 talk big. boast, brag, vaunt, crow, bluster, exaggerate, blow or toot (one's) own horn: He was never in the war - he just talks big. 9 talk down. a depreciate, deprecate, denigrate, disparage, belittle, minimize, diminish, criticize, Colloq knock, pan, put down: It's the only thing he's ever done, and you shouldn't talk it down. b Usually, talk down to. condescend to, patronize: I resent your talking down to me in that way. 10 talk into. convince, bring round, sway, persuade: We have been trying to talk him into running in the marathon. 11 talk over. discuss: We talked over the best way to prepare the advertising proposal. 12 talk to or with. speak to or with, communicate with, converse with: Since the epi...
TALL|0|adj. 1 high, towering, big, soaring, lofty, giant, gigantic; multi-storey: The giant sequoias of California are the tallest trees in the world. There are many tall buildings in most major cities. 2 lanky, gangling, rangy, leggy, long-legged, big, giant, huge, gigantic, large: Some of those basketball players are unbelievably tall. 3 exaggerated, overblown, far-fetched, improbable, unbelievable, incredible, preposterous, outrageous, overdone, absurd, Colloq Brit steep: He told us some amusing tall tales about his fishing adventures.
TAME|0|adj. 1 tamed, docile, disciplined, obedient, domesticated, house-broken, trained, broken: He used to keep a tame fox in his back garden. 2 mild, gentle, fearless, unafraid: It is amazing how tame animals can be when they do not perceive man as a threat. 3 tractable, pliant, compliant, meek, submissive, mild, under (someone's) control or thumb, subdued, suppressed; unassertive, feeble, ineffectual, timid, timorous, cowardly, pusillanimous, chicken-hearted, faint-hearted, white-livered, lily-livered, yellow, Colloq wimpish: Charles is far too tame to defy Kate. 4 boring, tedious, tiresome, dull, insipid, bland, lifeless, flat, vapid, prosaic, humdrum, bland, unexciting, uninspired, uninspiring, run-of-the-mill, ordinary, uninteresting, dead, Colloq wishy-washy: As a nightclub, the place is much too tame for my tastes. --v. 5 break, domesticate, train, house-train, gentle, master, subdue, subjugate: The brown bear is a most difficult animal to tame. 6 calm, subdue, control, mollify, pacify, mute, temper, soften, curb, tone down, moderate, mitigate, tranquillize: After a week the Lord tamed the violent sea and our tiny craft was allowed to continue.
TANG|0|n. 1 pungency, piquancy, bite, zest, zestiness, sharpness, poignancy, spiciness, nip, edge, spice, taste, flavour, savour, aroma, smell, odour, Colloq zip, kick: Ginger root gives the dish just the right tang. 2 tinge, flavour, hint, suggestion, soupúon, trace, dab, smack, touch, smattering: The new version has the tang of the original without its obsolete words. 3 prong, tab, projection, tongue, strip, tine, shank, pin, spike: The tang of a good knife goes right through to the end of the handle.
TAPE|0|n. 1 strip, band, fillet, stripe, strap, belt, ribbon: She wore a colourful woven tape round her head to hold her hair. 2 (tape) recording, reel, spool, cassette, video: He played us the tape of the whole interview. --v. 3 strap, band, bind; seal, stick: If you tape the packet, customs cannot open it for inspection. 4 record; tape-record, video: Programmes can be taped automatically when we are out.
TART|0|adj. 1 sour, acidic, acidulous, acidulated, lemony, citrusy, vinegary, acetous, acescent; sharp, tangy, astringent, acerb, acerbic, acrid, bitter, pungent, piquant, harsh: Those grapes are a bit tart for my taste. 2 biting, bitter, caustic, acid, corrosive, mordant, astringent, acrimonious, trenchant, harsh, scathing, stinging, acerbic, incisive, cutting, keen,barbed, nasty, curmudgeonly, testy, crusty, abusive, virulent, sarcastic, sardonic, satiric(al), vicious, cynical: You can rely on Henry for a tart rebuff every time.
TASK|0|n. 1 duty, assignment, business, job, charge, stint, mission, work, chore, undertaking: It will be your task to keep the others working. 2 (major) effort, test (of strength), piece of work, struggle, strain: Getting him to do anything at all was quite a task. 3 take to task. scold, reprimand, call to account, blame, censure, recriminate, reproach, reprove, rebuke, criticize, lecture, upbraid, chide, reprehend: I was taken to task for failing to notify the police of the break-in.
TAUT|0|adj. 1 tight, tense, strained, stretched, rigid, stiff: When his jaw goes taut like that I know he's angry. 2 Nautical neat, tidy, Bristol fashion, shipshape, spruce, (in) trim, smart, orderly, well-organized; well-disciplined: Captain Scriven runs a taut ship, no doubt about it.
TAXI|0|n. 1 taxi-cub, cab, hackney, Colloq hack: Please hurry, as I have a taxi waiting. --v. 2 drive, ride (on the ground): After landing, the plane taxied to the gate.
TEAM|0|n. 1 side, line-up, group, band, gang, body, crew, party, troupe: Which team does Lineker play for? 2 pair, yoke, span, duo, set, rig, tandem: They hitched a fresh team of horses to the coach and we were soon back on the road. --v. 3 Often, team up. join (up or together), band or get or work together, unite, combine, link (up), cooperate, collaborate; conspire: If we team up, we'll get the job done better and in half the time.
TEAR|0|v. 1 rip, rend, rive, rupture, pull apart, shred, mutilate, mangle, claw, split, divide, separate, sever: The tiger is tearing its quarry to shreds. He tore the contract in half and stormed out. 2 pull, snatch, wrench: The force of the blast tore the attach÷ case from my grasp. The child was torn from her mother's arms by the soldier. 3 dash, fly, run, gallop, race, sprint, rush, scoot, shoot, sprint, speed, bolt, dart, flit, scurry, scuttle, career, zoom, hurry, hasten, Colloq zip: He is tearing around trying to find the money to cover his loan. --n. 4 rip, rent, rupture, hole, split, slash, gore, cut, score, slit, gash, fissure, rift, laceration: Nobody will see the tear in your trousers if you remain seated.
TEEM|0|v. Usually teem with. proliferate (with), be prolific (with), abound, be abundant, swarm (with), be alive (with), crawl (with), bristle (with), overflow (with), overrun (with), be full (of), brim (with): When the panel was removed, the entire foundation was seen to be teeming with termites.
TELL|0|v. 1 relate, narrate, recount, recite: Tell me a story. 2 Sometimes, tell of. say, mention, hint at, refer to, touch on, utter, state, declare, proclaim, announce, publish, broadcast, communicate, make known, report, impart, indicate, release, break, let (something) be known, advertise, trumpet, herald, bring to light, disclose, divulge, intimate, leak, admit, betray, acknowledge, confess, disbosom oneself, get (something) off (one's) chest, unburden or disburden (oneself), blab, tattle, Colloq talk, let the cat out of the bag, spill the beans, let out, let slip, blow the whistle on, give away the (whole) show, US pull the plug on, Slang squeal, squeak, rat, peach, US spill (one's) guts: She told of her fears. He refuses to tell where the money is hidden. She talked a lot but told very little. 3 apprise, advise, inform, let (someone) know, notify, acquaint (someone) with (something): He has told me everything. Tell them that I shall be late. He told them nothing of his illness. 4 recount, describe, delineate, outline, portray, depict, express, put, word, explain: I am not sure how to tell you this. 5 order, command, require, demand (that), charge, direct, dictate (that), instruct, bid: Tell them I want no visitors today. She told him to go. 6 carry weight, be influential, be effective, have (an) effect: What we accomplished here today is bound to tell in our favour. 7 determine, say, confirm, aver, assert, asseverate, swear, take an oath, be sure or certain or positive, know (for sure or for certain): It just shows you never can tell. 8 ascertain, determine, perceive, understand, make out, discern, identify, recognize, distinguish, discriminate, differentiate: I cannot tell if that is George or not. I can't tell George from John in this photograph. 9 predict, prophesy, forecast, foretell, foresee, forecast, determine, ascertain, know: Who can tell what tomorrow will bring? 10 tell off. scold, reprimand, berate, chide, castigate, censure, take to task, rebuke, lectur...
TEND|0|v. be inclined or disposed, be liable or apt or likely, incline, lean, have or show or exhibit or demonstrate a tendency, favour, verge, gravitate, be biased; be prone: The judge might tend towards leniency in your case. I tend to agree. Tree growth here tends towards the horizontal.
TERM|0|n. 1 name, title, designation, appellation; word, expression, locution, phrase: The term for that is venturi tube. Habeas corpus is a term of art in law. 2 semester; time, period (of time), interval, length of time, span (of time), duration, spell, stretch, while: During the summer term we played cricket every Saturday. He was sentenced to a long term of imprisonment. 3 sitting, stint, session, course; incumbency, administration: During their latest term of office, interest rates were raised twice. 4 Often, terms. condition(s), provision(s), article(s), clause(s), proviso(s); stipulation(s), qualification(s), assumption(s): According to the terms of the will, proceeds from the patent go into a trust fund. 5 come to terms. agree, come to or reach an agreement or an arrangement or an understanding, reconcile, arrange, settle, compromise: Can we come to terms on the price? He will simply have to come to terms with his conscience. 6 in terms of. concerning, regarding, as regards, with regard to, in relation to, relative to, relating to, in the matter of: The psychiatrist offered little in terms of direct solutions to my problems. 7 terms. a payment, schedule, rates: What terms have they offered to settle the debt? b standing, position, basis, relationship, relations, footing: I always thought you two were on good terms. --v. 8 call, name, label, designate, denominate, entitle, title, style, dub; nickname: Abraham Lincoln was termed, among other things, 'The Great Emancipator'.
TEST|0|n. 1 trial, examination, exam, proof, evaluation, assay, check, check-up, investigation, study, analysis: My physics test is tomorrow. Have you had a blood test lately? --v. 2 try (out), check (up) (on), examine, evaluate, assess, assay, prove, probe: Someone ought to test the water for purity.
TEXT|0|n. 1 wording, words, content, (subject-)matter; printed matter, (main) body (text), contents: The editor had no right to make changes in the text without consulting the author. The text is in 10-point roman type, the footnotes in 8-point. 2 extract, abstract, section, quotation, part, paragraph, passage, verse, line: What text from the Scripture are we discussing next week? 3 subject(-matter), topic, theme, motif, issue, focus: For today's talk I have chosen for my text the problem of alcoholism. 4 textbook, school-book, reader, manual, primer, workbook, exercise book, Archaic hornbook: Today's science texts are much more advanced than those of twenty years ago.
THAW|0|v. 1 Sometimes, thaw out. melt, de-ice, liquefy, defrost, warm (up), heat (up), unfreeze: We cannot leave till the river thaws. Why not thaw out the shepherd's pie for dinner? 2 soften, warm, become (more) cordial or friendly, relax, yield, relent, bend, unbend, let (oneself) go: After he got to know some of us better he began to thaw.
THIN|0|adj. 1 slim, slender, lean, spare, slight, lanky, spindly, skinny, thin as a rail or reed or rake, wispy, twiggy, skeletal, gaunt, gangling, bony, emaciated, cadaverous, meagre, scrawny, all skin and bones, scraggy, undernourished, underfed, underweight, undersized, puny, sparse, hollow-cheeked, (half-)starved, pinched, withered, shrunken, shrivelled (up): Douglas is quite thin as a result of his illness. 2 sparse, unsubstantial, poor, scant, insufficient, inadequate, slight, worthless, unimportant, deficient, skimpy, unplentiful, paltry, piddling: This year's harvest has been very thin. 3 attenuated, threadlike, stringlike, pencil-thin, fine; narrow: Draw a thin line between the columns. Please slice the bread thin. 4 flimsy, weak, feeble, slight, unsubstantial, insubstantial, fragile, frail, poor, lame; unbelievable, unconvincing: Harry gave some thin excuse for being late. 5 airy, filmy, diaphanous, gossamer, sheer, light, delicate, chiffon, silky, silken, gauzy, translucent, see-through, transparent: She had nothing but a thin negligee to protect her from the cold. 6 watery, watered down, dilute(d), weak, unsatisfying: My dinner, as usual, consisted of thin gruel and a dry crust. 7 thin on the ground. rare, uncommon, scarce, few (and far between), unusual, hard to come by or find, scant, scanty: Good managers are thin on the ground. --v. 8 Often, thin down. draw out, attenuate, reduce, trim, cut down, prune; sharpen: At one end, thin the dowel to a point. 9 Often, thin down or out. dilute, water (down), decrease, reduce, diminish: They always thin the wine with some water. The crowd thinned out after a while.
THUD|0|n. clunk, thump, whomp, wham, clonk, bump: His head hit the wall with a thud.
THUG|0|n. hooligan, gangster, desperado, gunman, terrorist, hoodlum, robber, assassin, murderer, killer, cutthroat, ruffian, Mafioso, (In Paris) apache, tough, mugger, Technical p'hansigar, Brit rough, Slang tough, hood, crook, hit man, heavy, US goon, Australian larrikin: Some thugs roughed him up and took his wallet.
THUS|0|adv. 1 so, in this manner or way or fashion or wise, as follows, Non-Standard thusly: On receipt of the payment, I wrote thus to him. 2 therefore, ergo, consequently, as a consequence, as a result, accordingly, (and) so, then, for this or that reason, hence, in which case or event, that being the case, that being so: He has already decided; thus, your efforts to persuade him are useless.
TIDY|0|adj. 1 neat, orderly, trim, shipshape, spruce, spick and span, clean, well-kept, well-groomed: Change your clothes and come back when you're tidy. 2 well-organized, organized, well-ordered, methodical, systematic, trim: They refused to clean his office till he had made it tidy. 3 respectable, sizeable, significant, considerable, substantial, good, goodly, good-sized, ample, large, big, fair, generous, not insignificant; Colloq not to be sneezed at: They settled a tidy sum on their daughter when she was married. --v. 4 Often, tidy up. neaten (up), straighten (out or up), clean (up), put in order, Colloq fix (up), spruce up, organize, reorganize, arrange, rearrange: You can't watch television until you've tidied up your room. Please tidy up the files by the end of the week.
TIER|0|n. row, line, level, order, range, course, series, stratum, layer, echelon, file, rank, storey: The trireme is said to have had three tiers of oarsmen.
TIFF|0|n. (petty) quarrel, disagreement, misunderstanding, dispute, argument, difference (of opinion), squabble, bicker, row, wrangle, US spat: Clare and Geoff have had their first tiff.
TILL|0|v. plough or US also plow, cultivate, farm, work, dig, hoe, harrow, manure, Literary delve: My family has tilled this land for seven generations.
TILT|0|v. 1 lean, slant, incline, slope, angle, tip, heel over, pitch, list, cant: She caught the lamp just as the table tilted. 2 tilt at. joust with, compete with, battle against, contend with, spar with, cross swords with, attack: In tilting at the media, he has chosen some formidable opponents. --n. 3 lean, slant, incline, slope, angle, tip, heel, list, pitch, cant, inclination: The wall is at a perilous tilt and could easily fall. 4 joust, tourney, tournament, meeting, tilting, engagement, encounter, match, contest, test, trial, fight, combat; dispute, argument, difference, quarrel, altercation, squabble, tiff, US spat, Colloq set-to: I have enjoyed the various tilts I have had with the editor over the years.
TIME|0|n. 1 period, interval, stretch, spell, patch: I was going through a bad time when we last met. 2 period, interval, stretch, while, span, space, term, duration: It is a long time since I have seen you. In the time I took to write this, she had vanished. 3 hour; point, moment: What time is it? At what time is our appointment? 4 age, period, epoch, era, lifetime, heyday, day(s): The novel is set in the time of the Caesars. 5 opportunity, chance, occasion: You must make time to visit your mother. 6 experience: I had a wonderful time at your party. 7 tempo, beat, rhythm, metre, measure: They are playing 'Teddy Bears' Picnic' in march time. 8 ease, leisure; convenience: He'll be there in his own time. 9 Often, times. life, things, circumstance, conditions, everything, culture, mores, habits, values: How times have changed since we were young! 10 ahead of time. (bright and) early, prematurely, beforehand, in good time: He arrived ahead of time and had to wait. 11 all the time. always, ever, constantly, continuously, continually, perpetually, at all times, without surcease, unceasingly: Mother is after me all the time to do my homework. 12 at one time. a once, once upon a time, on one occasion, previously, in days of yore, formerly, heretofore, in the (good) old days: At one time you thought me beautiful. b simultaneously, (all) at once, at the same time, together, all together, in unison: The car can only carry five people at one time. 13 at the same time. a all the same, nonetheless, yet, even so, but, however, be that as it may, nevertheless, notwithstanding, just the same: I love her; at the same time, I cannot live with her. b See 12 (b), above. 14 at times. from time to time, occasionally, (every) now and then, once in a while, on occasion, every so often, at intervals, sometimes, Colloq every so often: At times, Ingrid would come over and cook dinner for me. 15 behind the times. old-fashioned, outdated, dated, outmoded, antiquated, pass÷, obsolescent, obsolete, Coll...
TINT|0|n. 1 tincture, wash, hue, colour, cast; tinge, touch, hint, trace, dash, colouring, shade, tone, suggestion: In the west a tint of pink lingered in the sky. I thought I detected a tint of anger in his voice. 2 dye, rinse, wash, stain, tincture, colourant, colouring, touch-up: What's the harm in granny's using blue hair tint? --v. 3 dye, stain, colour, rinse, tinge, touch up: Sandra tints her hair to give it a coppery sheen. 4 tinge, colour, influence, affect, taint, stain: A deep pessimism tints all his writing.
TINY|0|adj. microscopic, infinitesimal, minute, minuscule, diminutive, wee, small, little, miniature, micro, mini, pocket, pocket-sized, bantam, pygmy or pigmy, midget, Lilliputian, petite, delicate, dainty, elfin, slight, insignificant, negligible, trifling, paltry, inconsequential, puny, Colloq pint-sized, teeny, teeny-weeny, teensy-weensy, itty-bitty, itsy-bitsy: She wore the tiniest bikini I had ever seen. When I saw them together I realized how tiny she is. Forgetting my birthday was only a tiny thing.
TIRE|0|v. 1 weary, tire out, fatigue, exhaust, wear out, drain, sap, enervate, drain, wear out, debilitate, weaken, Colloq take it out of, fag (out), take it out of: The long climb tired me. 2 bore, exasperate, weary, irk, irritate, annoy, bother: I wish you wouldn't tire me with your accounts of your shopping expeditions.
TOLL|0|v. 1 ring, peal, chime, strike, sound: The clock tower bell tolled three. --n. 2 ring, ringing, peal, pealing, chime, chiming, striking, sound, sounding, tolling, knell: Each toll of the bell marked the death of another victim.
TOMB|0|n. sepulchre, crypt, vault, mausoleum, grave, catacomb, burial-chamber, final or last resting-place: Every year his tomb is visited by a mysterious woman in black.
TONE|0|n. 1 sound, note: Odd tones emanated from the electronic music-maker. 2 stress, emphasis, force, accent, intonation, modulation, phrasing, inflection, pitch, tonality, timbre, sound (colour), tone colour or quality, colour or colouring, resonance, sonorousness, sonority, fullness, richness: The tone of his voice is extraordinarily melodic. 3 manner, style, attitude, air, aspect, approach, note, tenor, tone of voice, mode of expression, temper, vein, spirit, air: Do not take that imperious tone with me! 4 tint, tinge, shade, hue, colour, colouring, cast: The fabric has a silvery tone that makes it shimmer. --v. 5 tone down. temper, modify, reduce, moderate, modulate, soften, quiet(en), dampen, dull, subdue, mute, soft-pedal: Please tone down your voice or the neighbours will hear you. 6 tone up. (re)invigorate, tune (up), brighten (up), (re)vitalize, freshen (up), limber up, get into condition or shape: I really have to tone up my body before I put on a swimsuit this summer.
TOOL|0|n. 1 utensil, implement, instrument, device, apparatus, appliance, contrivance, aid, machine, mechanism, gadget, Colloq contraption, gimmick, Chiefly US and Canadian gismo or gizmo: The work would go faster if you had the proper tools. 2 means, way, agency, weapon, medium, vehicle, instrumentality, avenue, road: Education is the tool you need to get anywhere in life. 3 puppet, cat's-paw, pawn, dupe, Slang stooge, sucker: I had been used merely as a tool in her ambitious rise to the top. --v. 4 work, carve, cut, embellish, decorate, ornament, dress, shape: This is the shop where the leather is tooled and gold-stamped.
TOSS|0|v. 1 throw, cast, lob, pitch, fling, hurl, heave, shy, launch, send, let fly, propel, catapult, sling, bowl, Colloq chuck: The goalkeeper tossed the ball into the middle of the field. 2 shake, jerk, stir up, agitate, fling: Lucy disdainfully tossed her head. 3 shake (up), stir (up), agitate, jiggle, tumble, joggle; wave, lash, thrash: Don't you put the dressing on before you toss the salad? The branches of the huge oak were being tossed about in the storm. 4 writhe, wriggle, squirm, toss and turn, thrash: I tossed all night, unable to get a moment's sleep. 5 pitch, yaw, wallow, roll, lurch, undulate, plunge: Our little boat was tossed this way and that in the heavy seas. --n. 6 throw, lob, pitch, heave, shy: His toss went wild and the ball rolled over the cliff.
TOUR|0|n. 1 journey, trip, excursion, outing, expedition, voyage, trek, peregrination, jaunt, junket: We went on a guided tour because we were short of time and wanted to see everything. 2 stroll, perambulation, walkabout, ramble, walk, drive; round, circuit, ambit: The government representatives are on a tour of all nuclear facilities. 3 spell, shift, assignment, turn, Military period of service or enlistment: His tour of duty is not finished till midnight. --v. 4 journey, travel, voyage, visit, trip, trek, sightsee, cruise; Colloq globe-trot: On retirement we spent a year just touring around Europe.
TOUT|0|v. 1 hawk, peddle, sell, promote, talk up, Colloq push, plug: They tout these new headache tablets as miraculous. --n. 2 tipster: He is often seen with racetrack touts.
TOWN|0|n. township, village, hamlet, community; municipality, city, metropolis, borough, burgh: She was born in Stornoway, a small town in the Outer Hebrides. We have to drive into the town to do our shopping.
TRAM|0|n. tramcar, trolley bus, US and Canadian streetcar, trolley(-car): Most cities with a traffic problem have replaced trams with buses.
TRAP|0|n. 1 snare, pitfall, gin, springe, deadfall, booby-trap: After the Pied Piper left, Hamelin had no further need for rat traps. 2 trick, subterfuge, wile, ruse, stratagem, ambush, deception, device, artifice, ploy: Oscar was the man for whom Esther set a neat trap. 3 mouth, Slang yap, gob, mush, face: Shut your trap or get out. --v. 4 snare, ensnare, entrap, catch, net: We dug a pit to trap the marauding lion. 5 imprison, confine, lock, hold, keep: The boy was trapped in the cave without a means of escape. 6 trick, deceive, fool, dupe, beguile, inveigle: Esther finally trapped Oscar into marrying her.
TRIM|0|adj. 1 neat, tidy, orderly, well-ordered, well-groomed, well turned out, well-kempt, smart, crisp, dapper, spick and span, spruce, shipshape (and Bristol fashion), Archaic or dialectal trig, Colloq natty, US spiffy: Nancy arrived wearing her trim new flight-attendant's uniform. 2 in good or fine fettle, fit (as a fiddle), athletic, slim, slender, clean-cut, shapely, streamlined, compact: Larry looks so trim that I asked him if he had lost weight. The new convertible model is a very trim little motor-car. --v. 3 curtail, shorten, prune, pare, lop (off), crop, bob, clip, cut, shave, shear, snip, dock; barber: They trimmed the article by cutting two paragraphs from the end. He had shaved off his beard and trimmed his moustache. 4 decorate, embellish, dress up, embroider, adorn, ornament, deck out, caparison, beautify: When should we trim the Christmas tree? --n. 5 trimming, edging, piping, purfling, ricrac or rickrack, embroidery, border, hem, frill, fringe, ornament, ornamentation, decoration, embellishment, adornment: The skirt was spoilt by a rather cheap trim round the hem. 6 condition, state, fettle, health, form, order, fitness, repair, Colloq shape: Sid's car seemed to be in good trim when I saw it yesterday.
TRIO|0|n. threesome, trilogy, triad, triplex, triple, troika, triptych, triumvirate, triplet, trine, triune, trinity, three: An interesting trio showed up for dinner.
TRIP|0|n. 1 stumble, slip, blunder, false step, misstep, fall: He sprained his ankle in that trip on the stair. 2 stumble, slip, blunder, false step, misstep, faux pas, error, mistake, indiscretion, lapse, slip of the tongue, lapsus linguae, erratum, oversight; Freudian slip; Slang Brit boob: If it hadn't been for that one trip, we would have had a perfect score. 3 tour, journey, excursion, outing, expedition, voyage, trek, peregrination, jaunt, junket, drive: We took a short side-trip to visit Khios. --v. 4 dance, caper, skip, cavort, gambol, frisk, hop, spring: Joanne came tripping gaily down the Champs òlys÷es. 5 stumble, slip, blunder, misstep, fall (down), tumble, topple, dive, plunge, sprawl, lurch, flounder, stagger, falter: I tripped on the doorstep and went head over heels. 6 Often, trip up. trap, trick, catch out, unsettle, throw off, disconcert: She has been trying to trip me up and confess to something I didn't do. 7 journey, travel, voyage, visit, tour, trek, sightsee, cruise; Colloq globe-trot: They have been tripping all over Europe this summer. 8 detonate, set off, trigger, operate, release, explode, spark off: When he touched the wire, he tripped the charge. 9 Often, trip out. hallucinate, Slang freak out, turn on: There's no talking to him when he's tripping out on coke.
TROT|0|v. 1 jog, run; bustle, hustle, hurry, hasten, scamper, scoot, Colloq skedaddle: I trot round the park every morning for exercise. As I need some butter, I'd better trot down to the shop before it closes. 2 trot out. bring out, show, display, exhibit, flaunt, come out with; dredge up, drag out; recite, repeat: Our neighbour trotted out his new lawnmower for us to admire. --n. 3 jog, lope, single-foot, pace; run: It was a delight to watch the young horses in a fast trot round the track. 4 translation, gloss, interpretation, crib, Colloq US pony, horse: He couldn't read Homer without a trot.
TRUE|0|adj. 1 accurate, correct, truthful, faithful, literal, authentic, veracious, actual, factual, realistic, genuine, right, valid, unelaborated, unvarnished, unadulterated, verified, verifiable: Do you swear that this is a true account of what actually took place? 2 staunch, faithful, devoted, dedicated, loyal, fast, firm, unswerving, steady, steadfast, trustworthy, trusty, dutiful, upright, honourable, constant, unwavering, stable, dependable, sincere, reliable, true-blue: D'Artagnan proved himself to be a true friend. 3 proper, exact, accurate, unerring, correct, precise, right, Slang Brit spot on: It is important that these matters be seen in their true perspective. If this is a true copy of the original, please sign it. --adv. 4 truly, truthfully, honestly, accurately, candidly, frankly, sincerely, straightforwardly: Tell me true, do you love me? If the report speaks true, then we must find the culprit. 5 exactly, correctly; geographically: We sail true north to Iceland. 6 come true. come to pass, occur, take, place, happen, be realized, become a reality, be fulfilled: Her dreams finally came true when she bought a little house in Kent.
TUNE|0|n. 1 melody, air, song, strain, motif, theme: David presents a marvellous half-hour radio programme of show tunes every week. 2 euphony, pitch, harmony, accord, accordance, consonance, unison, correspondence, conformity: She cannot sing in tune. The guitar is out of tune with the piano. Her husband is out of tune with today's fashion. --v. 3 tune up, calibrate, adjust, regulate, coordinate, adapt, attune, align, set: That garage charges too much for tuning an engine. 4 tune in (on). attend (to), pay attention (to), listen (to), understand, be aware (of), be on the qui vive, be alert (to), Slang be on the same wavelength or frequency (with): I am not sure that Bernard is tuned in to what his sister does for a living. 5 tune out. ignore, disregard, turn a blind eye to, be blind to, turn one's back on, turn a deaf ear to: Sally is able to tune out anything she doesn't like to hear.
TURF|0|n. 1 sod, sward, green, grass, greensward, lawn: We bought some turf for the new lawn. 2 territory, bailiwick, area, neighbourhood, backyard, Colloq stamping-ground, home ground, (personal) space: You're on my turf now, so you'll do as I say. 3 the turf. horse-racing, racing, the racing world, racecourse, racetrack: The attractions of the turf keep them from other pursuits. --v. 4 turf out. eject, dismiss, expel, throw out, oust, banish, exile, Colloq sack, bounce, give (someone) the boot or the sack or the (old) heave-ho, chuck or toss or kick or boot out, fire: The committee said he had brought the sport into disrepute and turfed him out of the team.
TURN|0|v. 1 rotate, revolve, spin, roll, reel, circle, gyrate, whirl, wheel, go (a)round or about, pivot, swivel: The earth turns on its axis. Turn the crank to raise the bucket. 2 move, shift, wheel, veer, swing, face: As she turned I noticed a horrible scar. 3 reverse, turn (a)round, alter, change, adapt, reorganize, remodel, modify, refashion, reshape, reform, transform, make over, convert, bring over: He has been trying to turn the business into a profit-making enterprise. He has turned defeat into advance. She managed to turn one of the most loyal membrs of the government. 4 go or pass or move (a)round, veer, drive, walk: Turn left at the corner. 5 go bad, become rancid, spoil, curdle, addle, sour, decay, moulder, rot, putrefy, Colloq go off: All the milk in the fridge had turned because of the power cut. 6 apply, put, use, employ: Is there any way we can turn this situation to our advantage? 7 Sometimes, turn aside or away. block, avert, thwart, prevent, balk or baulk, parry, deflect, fend off, check: He deftly turned aside the thrust of the dagger. 8 form, make up, fashion, formulate, construct, cast, create, coin, concoct, express: Donald certainly knows how to turn a felicitous phrase. 9 direct, aim, point: He turned the gun on himself and pulled the trigger. 10 twist, sprain, wrench: I have turned my ankle and cannot walk. 11 twist, wind, snake, curve, bend, arc, coil, loop, meander, zigzag: The road turned this way and that, following the river bank. 12 turn against. defy, mutiny, rebel, revolt, rise (up) against: The captain had not expected the first mate to turn against him, too. 13 turn back. a reverse, repulse, repel, rebuff, drive back, beat back: At last we turned back the enemy's advance. b go back, retrace (one's) steps, return: We must turn back before it is too late. 14 turn down. a refuse, reject, rebuff, decline, deny: My request for help was turned down. b decrease or diminish or lessen or lower or soften the sound of: Turn down the radio, I'm on t...
TWEE|0|adj. precious, sweet, sentimental, quaint, dainty, cute, mignon(ne), bijou: The tearoom atmosphere is a bit too twee for my taste.
TWIG|0|n. sprig, stem, shoot, offshoot, branchlet, stick, sucker, sprout, withe or withy, tendril: Gather up some dry twigs for kindling.
TWIN|0|n. 1 double, clone, duplicate, look-alike, counterpart, Slang ringer: I cannot distinguish these twins. --adj. 2 identical, matching, matched, duplicate, corresponding, look-alike: The bedroom had twin beds with pink covers. --v. 3 pair, match, yoke, join, link, couple, combine, connect, associate: Many towns in Britain are twinned with similar towns on the Continent.
TWIT|0|v. tease, cajole, taunt, jeer (at), make fun of, banter, tweak, gibe or jibe, chaff, ridicule, mock; blame, berate, deride, scorn, contemn, censure, revile, reproach, upbraid; Colloq kid, pull (someone's) leg: She never seemed to mind being twitted about her height.
TYPE|0|n. 1 class, category, classification, kind, sort, genre, order, variety, breed, species, strain, group, genus, ilk, kidney: Just what type of person would you say the president is? 2 typeface, Brit fount, US font: The body text ought to be set in Bodoni Book type, the headings in Times bold. 3 prototype, paradigm, archetype, epitome, exemplar, model, specimen, pattern, personification, standard, quintessence: She doesn't consider him to be the usual type of businessman. --v. 4 typewrite; keyboard; transcribe: She types at a speed of about sixty words a minute.
UGLY|0|adj. 1 unattractive, unlovely, unprepossessing, unsightly, hideous, grotesque, gruesome, ghastly, offensive, repulsive-looking, plain, plain-looking, plain-featured, bad-featured, ill-favoured, dreadful-looking, awful-looking, terrible-looking, horrible-looking, frightful-looking, monstrous-looking, US and Canadian homely: The Georgian houses were demolished and replaced by ugly tower-blocks. 2 objectionable, disagreeable, unpleasant, offensive, nasty, loathsome, repellent, repugnant, repulsive, noisome, nauseating, nauseous, revolting, sickening, disgusting, obnoxious, mephitic, rotten, corrupt, filthy, vile, heinous, bad, sordid, evil, foul, perverted, immoral, depraved, degenerate, base, debased, detestable, hateful, abominable, execrable, despicable, odious: The East End murders were among the ugliest crimes of the century. He sprang from his seat with an ugly curse on his lips. 3 disquieting, uncomfortable, discomforting, troublesome, awkward, disadvantageous, ominous, dangerous, perilous, hazardous: He found himself in a very ugly position, with no apparent means of escape. 4 unpleasant, disagreeable, surly, hostile, nasty, spiteful, bad-tempered, ill-tempered, currish, irascible, curmudgeonly, cantankerous, crabby, crabbed, crotchety, cross, cranky, mean: He's in an ugly mood till he's had his coffee.
UNDO|0|v. 1 loosen, loose, open, unfasten, unhook, unlace, unzip, unsnap, unbutton, untie, unpin; unlock, unbolt: Help me undo my blouse. Don't undo the gate - you'll let the dogs out. 2 unwrap, uncover, open, untie, unbind: Why have you allowed the children to undo their Christmas presents a week early? 3 cancel, annul, rescind, nullify, void, declare null and void, reverse, invalidate: If one could undo things there would be no such thing as regret.
UNIT|0|n. element, component, entity, part, item, constituent, piece, portion, segment, section, module: The units fit together like Lego blocks.
URGE|0|v. 1 press, push, drive, force, impel, speed, accelerate, hurry, rush, hustle, move, goad, prod, egg on, spur: He urged his steed onward. 2 press, goad, prod, egg on, spur, prompt, induce, incite, constrain, exhort, encourage, demand, request, ask, plead (with), beseech, beg, entreat, importune: We've been urging the police for months to investigate the goings-on at that house. 3 coax, persuade, induce, prevail upon, campaign (with), sway, influence, talk into, advise, suggest, counsel: The agents urged them to sell their house while the market was good. 4 argue, set forth, affirm, state, allege, assert, hold, advise, advocate, demand: The residents urged that the planning board should deny permission for a supermarket. --n. 5 pressure, impetus, desire, compulsion, impulse, itch, longing, yearning, drive, fancy, hunger, thirst, craving, Colloq yen: We stopped because Corey felt the urge to have some ice-cream.
USED|0|adj. 1 second-hand, cast-off, old, worn, Euphemistic pre-owned, Colloq hand-me-down, Brit reach-me-down: You're better off buying a good used car, since new ones depreciate so quickly. 2 utilized, employed, occupied; in use: We slept in a rarely used room. 3 used to. accustomed to, habituated to, acclimatized or acclimated to, adapted to, hardened or toughened or inured to or against, tempered to, tolerant of; familiar or acquainted with: After all those years, Amanda was used to Bill's shouting.
USER|0|n. 1 consumer, buyer, purchaser, owner; operator: Users of the equipment report excellent results. 2 alcohol or drug or narcotic addict: The police have been interviewing users in order to obtain more information about the dealers.
VAIN|0|adj. 1 proud, conceited, haughty, arrogant, boastful, egotistical, cocky, self-important, vainglorious, narcissistic, Colloq big-headed, swell-headed, stuck-up, swollen-headed: They are so vain that they have mirrors in every room. 2 worthless, profitless, bootless, pointless, unsuccessful, empty, futile, useless, unavailing, unproductive, fruitless, ineffective, abortive: Peter sent Carol flowers every day in a vain attempt to win her back. 3 in vain. a vainly, futilely, unsuccessfully, fruitlessly, bootlessly: In vain, we sought the help of the police. b irreverently, blasphemously, disrespectfully, improperly: Despite his mother's admonitions, he continues to take the Lord's name in vain.
VARY|0|v. 1 change, alter, diversify, transform, reshape, remodel, restyle, modify, reorganize: We vary the programme each month to make it more interesting. 2 change, switch, alternate, fluctuate, vacillate: The manager's attitude varies from helpful to downright rude. 3 depart, deviate, differ, diverge, shift, veer: These results do not vary from the average by more than five per cent.
VAST|0|adj. infinite, unlimited, boundless, limitless, unbounded, interminable, endless, never-ending, inexhaustible, indeterminate, immeasurable, incalculable, measureless; immense, enormous, huge, tremendous, great, prodigious, stupendous, gigantic, massive, voluminous, capacious, colossal, monumental, mammoth, jumbo, elephantine, behemoth, Cyclopean, Brobdingnagian, titanic, Literary vasty, Colloq ginormous, humongous: It is difficult to comprehend the vast distances of space. There is a vast difference between the climates of California and the Midwest.
VEIL|0|n. 1 covering, cover, screen, camouflage, cloak, curtain, mask, shroud: A veil of silence has been drawn over the meetings. He stole away under the veil of darkness. --v. 2 cover, conceal, hide, camouflage, cloak, mask, disguise, shroud, shield, obscure: The writer's identity was veiled from us till recently.
VEIN|0|n. 1 blood-vessel; nervure: He killed himself by opening a vein in his wrist. 2 streak, seam, stripe, striation, stria, thread, line: The reddish vein gives this marble a warm feeling. 3 seam, lode, stratum, course, deposit, bed: The prospector discovered a vein of almost pure gold in the old mine. 4 thread, hint, suggestion, touch, trace, streak, line, strain, mood, spirit, tone, note, tenor, feeling, attitude, disposition, humour, temper; tendency or inclination or proclivity toward(s): Underlying her apparent kindness is a vein of bitter hatred. 5 way, manner, course, fashion, style, mode, pattern: He would have continued in that same vein if the chairman hadn't stopped him.
VENT|0|n. 1 opening, slit, slot, hole, aperture, air-hole, blow-hole, spiracle, orifice, outlet, inlet, funnel, flue, duct, passage; fumarole, fissure, pipe, mofette or moffette: The tepee has a vent at the peak to let the smoke of the fire escape. 2 give vent to. See 3, below. --v. 3 give vent to, express, verbalize, air, articulate, enunciate, declare, voice, announce, communicate, pronounce, proclaim, reveal, release, let go, let loose, allow to become known, make known, blurt out, make public, broadcast: Has Margie ever vented her true feelings about your work as a bomb disposal expert? Arnold vents his spleen on any unfortunate who will stand for it. 4 discharge, release, emit, eject, issue, empty, dump, expel, send or pour out or forth, throw out: It is illegal to vent poisonous fumes into the atmosphere.
VERY|0|adv. 1 extremely, truly, really, to a great extent, exceedingly, greatly, (very) much, profoundly, deeply, acutely, unusually, extraordinarily, uncommonly, exceptionally, remarkably, absolutely, completely, entirely, altogether, totally, quite, rather, hugely, vastly, Dialect right, Brit jolly, Colloq damn(ed), terribly, awfully, darned, US dialect danged, plumb, Slang Brit bleeding , Chiefly Brit bloody: The Bell Inn has a very fine wine list. Vicky was very attached to her pony. I shall be there very soon. 2 most, extremely, certainly, surely, definitely, decidedly, unequivocally, unquestionably, quite, entirely, altogether: If you ask her out, she is very likely to say no. --adj. 3 exact, precise, perfect; same, selfsame, identical, particular: Her hopes were the very opposite of his. I arrived the very day she left. He is the very model of a hard-working student. 4 least, mere, merest, bare, barest, sheer, sheerest; utter, pure, simple: The very thought of war makes me ill. The very mention of her name strikes terror into the hearts of the local residents.
VETO|0|v. 1 stop, block, deny, ban, turn down, reject, disallow, rule out, quash, prevent, prohibit, interdict, taboo, outlaw, proscribe, preclude, Colloq put the kibosh on, kill, nix: Father vetoed the idea that we go to Brighton for the holiday. Any measure he proposed was summarily vetoed. --n. 2 denial, ban, stoppage, block, embargo, turn-down, rejection, disallowance, quashing, prevention, prohibition, interdiction, taboo, proscription, preclusion, vetoing, Colloq killing, nixing: The home secretary's veto of the abortion measure greatly angered the women's groups.
VICE|0|n. 1 immorality, corruption, evil, badness, depravity, degradation, degeneracy, iniquity, villainy, venality, evil-doing, wickedness, profligacy, sin, sinfulness, transgression: She described the town as a den of indecency, exhibitionism, and vice. 2 flaw, defect, fault, imperfection, blemish, shortcoming, failing, weakness, frailty, foible, infirmity, deficiency: Rejection without due consideration is a prejudicial vice of editors.
VIEW|0|n. 1 outlook, aspect, prospect, scene, perspective, vista, panorama, spectacle, picture, tableau; landscape, seascape, cityscape: From the tower we had a view of the devastation below. 2 opinion, point of view, approach, position, judgement, belief, way of thinking, conception, understanding, impression, feeling, sentiment, notion: Denham's view is that the country's defences are inadequate. 3 aspect, angle, position, prospect, perspective, vision, representation, projection: Here is a termite's-eye view of the timbers in your house. 4 inspection, survey, vision, sight, observation, scrutiny, examination, contemplation, study: The shroud was pulled away, exposing the revolting object to our view. 5 aim, direction, intent, intention, purpose, objective, object, expectation, prospect, vision, hope, dream: We cultivated their friendship with a view to being invited aboard their yacht. 6 in view of. in light of, considering, in consideration of, because of, on account of: In view of your failure to respond to our letters, we must refer the matter to our lawyers. --v. 7 look at or upon or over, see, take in, watch, observe, scrutinize, examine, regard, behold: From this vantage point one can view the entire valley. 8 witness, see, watch, observe, take in: We viewed the entire robbery as it took place. 9 regard, consider, think of, look on or upon, judge, deem, believe, hold, estimate, rate, gauge, assess: Control views Craven as a threat.
VILE|0|adj. 1 base, abject, contemptible, debased, degenerate, depraved, bad, iniquitous, execrable, atrocious, sordid, immoral, amoral, wicked, evil, sinful, hellish, fiendish, ignoble, revolting, despicable, horrid, horrible, dreadful, terrible, corrupt, mean, wretched, miserable, degrading, ignominious, disgraceful, shameful, shameless: In every age, the vilest specimens of human nature are to be found among demagogues. 2 disgusting, nasty, sickening, nauseous, nauseating, foul, loathsome, offensive, noxious, repulsive, repellent, repugnant: It is, indeed, a vile disease, but at least it is not contagious. She had prepared some vile cocktail that I refused to drink.
VOID|0|adj. 1 null and void, invalid, not (legally) binding, inoperative, unenforceable, ineffectual, futile, ineffective, vain, unavailing, idle, useless, pointless, bootless: Owing to irregularities, the election was declared void. If a card is turned face-up, the deal is void. 2 empty, vacant, unoccupied, unused, unutilized, unfilled, blank, clear; deserted: It is up to the council to appoint new members as places become void. 3 void of. devoid of, without, lacking, destitute of: The man was utterly void of imagination. In a minute, the room was void of people. --n. 4 emptiness, vacantness, vacuum, blankness, nothingness: Without a word, he leaped off the edge and plunged into the void. 5 space, niche, slot, opening, place, vacancy, gap, emptiness: Who will fill the void left by Edgar's departure? --v. 6 nullify, annul, cancel, delete, disannul, declare or render null and void, invalidate, quash, vacate, discharge, abandon, disestablish, neutralize, disenact, set or put aside, rescind, reverse, abnegate, abrogate: They had to void the accusation for lack of evidence. 7 evacuate, discharge, expel, emit, purge, clear, empty, drain, eject; pass, excrete, urinate, defecate: The tanker went far out to sea before voiding its tanks. This medication will help in voiding the patient's bowels.
VOTE|0|n. 1 ballot, ticket, show of hands; referendum, plebiscite: We must have a vote on the issue. 2 suffrage, franchise: Women did not have the vote in those days. 3 opinion; voter, elector: Do you think your platform can win over the liberal vote? --v. 4 opt, choose, come out (for or against), express or signify (one's) opinion or preference or desire: Many people vote for a party rather than an individual.
WADE|0|v. 1 ford, cross, traverse, walk, make one's way: The water is only knee-deep, and you can wade across. 2 paddle, play, splash: There is a shallow pool where the little children can wade. 3 wade in or into. a enter, get in (or into), join (in): When the fight began, Patrick waded in with arms flailing. b attack, approach, get or set to work, plunge or dive into: I have to wade into an enormous pile of mail that accumulated while I was away. 4 wade through. plough through, work (one's) way through, hammer or pound away at, plod through, peg away at: You really have to wade through that entire book to write your report.
WAFT|0|v. 1 drift, float, blow, whiff, be borne or carried or transported: The scent of jasmine wafted towards me on the warm breeze. --n. 2 breath, suggestion, puff, whiff, hint: A waft of cool, fresh air momentarily eased the stench of the dungeon.
WAGE|0|n. 1 Often, wages. pay, compensation, emolument, remuneration, payment, fee, salary, stipend, recompense, reward, earnings; honorarium: The strikers wanted a ten per cent increase in their hourly wage. --v. 2 carry on, pursue, conduct, engage in, undertake, practise, prosecute, proceed with: History shows that wars are often waged over trifling differences.
WAIT|0|v. 1 tarry, linger, hold on, stay, bide (one's) time, mark time, stand by, Colloq cool (one's) heels, stick around, sit tight, hang on, Brit hang about, US hang around: If you wait till I've finished this, I'll join you for dinner. 2 be delayed or postponed or deferred or shelved or put off, US be tabled, Colloq be put on ice or on the back burner: The quarterly sales figures can wait - we haven't yet completed those for this month. 3 wait on or upon. serve, attend (to), minister (to): Rose made such a fuss that the restaurant staff refused to wait on her. --n. 4 delay, pause, stay, hold-up, interval, halt, stop, stoppage, break, hiatus, lacuna, gap, respite, rest (period), intermission, discontinuation, recess: There was an extra long wait between trains because of track repairs further up the line.
WAKE|0|v. 1 Often, wake up. awaken, awake, rouse, waken, bring around; stir, bestir (oneself), get up, come to, get going: Wake me when it is over. She didn't wake up till noon. 2 awake, waken, awaken, animate, stimulate, enliven, galvanize, fire, quicken, inspirit, inspire, activate, liven up, vivify, kindle, vitalize, stir, arouse, get (someone) going, bring to life: When I feel this tired, it takes a lot to wake me up. Seeing Margo woke a spark in me I thought had long since died. --n. 3 vigil, watch, death-watch, funeral: If you have ever been to an Irish wake, you will know what I mean.
WALK|0|v. 1 advance, proceed, move, go, wend, go or make (one's) way by foot, tread, step, perambulate, stalk, stride, tramp, stroll, amble, ramble, ambulate, shamble, pad, shuffle, saunter, trudge, trek, plod, slog, hike, parade, promenade, strut, swagger, prance, march, goose-step, pace, trip, sidle, tiptoe, sashay, flounce, stagger, lurch, limp, waddle, stamp, mince, slink, steal, prowl, skulk, sneak, creep, Colloq go by or ride by shanks's or shanks' mare or pony, hoof it, foot it, traipse, pussyfoot, Slang US boogie: Guthrie certainly has a peculiar way of walking. 2 take, convoy, accompany, escort, go with; conduct, lead; empty: Let me walk you to the station. I have to walk the dog twice a day. 3 patrol, trace out, stalk, cover, haunt, prowl, wander, roam, rove or range about in or on, frequent: Her mother could not understand why Maizie walked the streets nightly. 4 walk out. a leave, depart, desert; walk out on: She just walked out and no one has seen her since. b strike, go (out) on strike, protest, take industrial action, Brit down tools: Negotiations reached an impasse, so the employees walked out. --n. 5 path, lane, pathway, pavement, footpath, promenade, esplanade, boardwalk, Brit footway, US sidewalk: We strolled along the pleasant walks that lead through the park. 6 gait, step, carriage, bearing, stride: He had great fun imitating Groucho Marx's slinky walk. 7 constitutional, stroll, amble; slog, tramp, hike: Lettie likes to take a walk in the park after dinner. We had a five-day walk through the jungle before reaching civilization.
WALL|0|n. 1 screen, partition, divider, enclosure, separator, bulkhead, barrier, obstruction, obstacle, impediment, block, fence: Marcie built round herself a wall of resentment which no one could penetrate. 2 barricade, fortification, protection, bulwark, breastwork, embankment, rampart, palisade, stockade: It was questionable whether the walls would withstand the cannon-balls. 3 drive up the wall. drive crazy or insane or mad, madden, exasperate, derange, try, irritate, infuriate, enrage: The constant caterwauling from the next flat is driving me up the wall. 4 go to the wall. fail, collapse, be ruined, face ruin, go bankrupt, lose everything, Colloq go broke, go under, fold (up), Slang go bust: Unicold went to the wall because of increased costs and decreased sales. --v. 5 Often, wall up or off. enclose, partition (off), close (off), brick up, immure: A bricklayer was hired to wall up the openings where the windows had been.
WAND|0|n. baton, stick, staff, stick: The magician pointed with his wand and a bottle of gin appeared.
WANE|0|v. 1 decrease, diminish, grow less, lessen, decline, die out, abate, ebb, subside, fade (away), dim, taper off, peter out, wind down, weaken: The waning moon cast its pale light on the dying knight. As his strength waned he could no longer lift his sword. 2 draw to a close, end, terminate: The day waned into a gloomy evening. --n. 3 decrease, diminution, lessening, decline, abatement, ebb, subsidence, fading, tapering off, petering out, winding down, weakening, deterioration, degeneration: The 1970s saw the wane in popularity of large, gas-guzzling cars. 4 on the wane. on the decrease or decline or ebb, diminishing, decreasing, declining, abating, subsiding, fading, tapering off, petering out, winding down, weakening, deteriorating, degenerating: The economy is recovering, and inflation is on the wane. Since that latest illness, my energy has been on the wane.
WANT|0|v. 1 desire, crave, wish (for), long for, pine for, hope (for), fancy, covet, hanker after, lust after, hunger for or after, thirst for or after, yearn for, Colloq have a yen for: I want you near me. Ignore his crying - he just wants some ice-cream. Maybe he's crying because he wants to go. 2 need, lack, miss, require, call for, demand, be deficient in, be or stand in want or in need of, necessitate; be or fall short of: This engine wants proper maintenance. The bottle wants only a few more drops to fill it. --n. 3 need, lack, shortage, deficiency, dearth, scarcity, scarceness, insufficiency, scantiness, inadequacy, paucity: For want of good writers, the literary quarterly diminished in size and finally disappeared. 4 appetite, hunger, thirst, craving, desire, fancy, wish, longing, yearning, hankering, demand, necessity, requirement, requisite, prerequisite, Colloq yen: She gave up trying to satisfy his wants. 5 poverty, need, indigence, homelessness, destitution, privation, pauperism, penury, neediness, impecuniousness: The civilized nations are trying to solve the problems of want, which seem to increase daily.
WARD|0|n. 1 district, division, precinct, section, zone, quarter: Perkin was running for re-election as councillor of the Eastgate ward. 2 minor, dependant: The child was made a ward of the court. --v. 3 ward off. fend off, repel, avert, avoid, block, thwart, keep away or off or at bay or at arm's length, check, repulse, chase away or off, forestall: This brandy should help ward off the night chill.
WARM|0|adj. 1 heated, tepid, lukewarm, cosy, comfortable, not uncomfortable, balmy: We chose a beautiful warm day for our picnic. 2 passionate, impassioned, excited, animated, fervent, fervid, spirited, lively, ardent, zealous, keen, eager, emotional, heated, intense, irritated, annoyed, vexed, angry, irate, furious, testy, short-tempered, touchy, quick-tempered, irascible, irritable, stormy, turbulent, vigorous, violent, Colloq worked up, hot under the collar, steamed up: Charles occasionally became a bit warm on the subject of architecture. The debate grew warm as we joined in. 3 amiable, friendly, cordial, affable, pleasant, genial, cheerful, kindly, hospitable, hearty; affectionate, tender, mellow, loving, amorous: After a warm greeting from our host, we went in to meet the other guests. Her generous gifts to charity revealed that she really has a warm heart. 4 ardent, enthusiastic, earnest, eager, sincere: Our ideas for the new campaign met with warm approval from the client. 5 uncomfortable, awkward, unpleasant, strained, tense: The people in this town tend to make things a bit warm for strangers. 6 Often, getting warm. close or near to making a discovery, about to make a discovery: From her look as I approached the cabinet, I knew I was getting warm. --v. 7 heat (up), warm up or over: I warmed myself by the fire. 8 Often, warm to. become less antagonistic or hostile to or toward(s), become enthusiastic or supportive of, become excited or animated about or over, be attracted to or toward(s), like, feel affection for: Martin never did warm to my idea of using the village notice-board for his message. 9 stir, move, please, delight, make (one or someone) feel good: It warmed me to know that she had at last found someone to love.
WARN|0|v. 1 caution, admonish, advise, notify, apprise, inform, give (fair) warning, alert, give (prior) notice, put (someone) on notice or on guard or on the alert, make (someone) aware (of), forewarn, tip off, Rare premonish: The entire population has been warned about the imminent hurricane. 2 advise, counsel, caution: You did warn me against investing in llama farms.
WARP|0|v. 1 twist, contort, distort, deform, bend out of shape, wrench, pervert, misshape: Using steam, the timber was warped to fit the hull. You certainly have a warped idea of what Yvette does for a living. --n. 2 twist, contortion, distortion, bias, deformity, deformation, bend, wrench, perversion, kink, idiosyncrasy, quirk, deviation: There is too much of a warp in this veneer to repair it. Harry has to overcome a serious warp in his attitude towards food.
WARY|0|adj. cautious, careful, on (one's) guard, circumspect, prudent, apprehensive, chary, watchful, vigilant, on the qui vive, heedful, observant, on (one's) toes, Colloq cagey, Slang leery (of): Phoebe is wary of going out with someone she doesn't know.
WASH|0|v. 1 wash up, clean (up), cleanse, bathe, shower, douche, douse, scrub (up), shampoo, soap up, lather, launder, scour, soak, rinse, flush, wet, drench, deterge, sponge (off), Facetious perform (one's) ablutions, Archaic absterge, Formal or literary lave, Brit bath: Please wash the dishes when you have finished eating. I must wash before I do anything else. 2 Sometimes, wash away or out or off. remove, move, transport, carry, bear, convey, deliver, deposit, drive, sweep: The silt, with the gold dust, is washed downstream. In this process, the impurities are washed away. 3 splash, spatter, splatter, plash, dash, beat, pound, thrash, break, toss, surge, undulate, rush, run, lap, ripple, roll, flow: We stood watching the sea washing against the breakwater. 4 Usually, wash away or off. erode, wear off or away, remove, delete, erase, expunge, destroy, eradicate, obliterate, extinguish, blot out, wipe out: After 5000 years, the action of the waves had washed away all traces of the Vengorian civilization. 5 Often, wash away or out. erode, cut or dig or wear or eat or dredge (away or out), excavate, channel: The river eventually washed out a new course, fifteen miles to the west. 6 decontaminate, purify, sift, filter, depurate: The wastes are thoroughly washed in these tanks before being discharged into the ocean. 7 overlay, film, coat, paint, glaze; plate: What do you think of colour they washed the wall? 8 hold up, stand up, stand the test of time, carry weight, bear scrutiny, prove true, make sense, be believable or credible, Colloq hold water: I'm afraid that Helen's explanation of her whereabouts at the time of the murder simply won't wash. 9 wash down. swallow: Here, wash the pill down with this. 10 wash (one's) hands of. stay or keep away from, disown, repudiate, turn (one's) back on, have nothing more or further to do with, get rid of, rid (oneself) of, desert, abandon, leave: After Neil took the money, Violet washed her hands of him and his problems. --n. 11 washing...
WAVE|0|n. 1 swell, undulation, billow, sea, heave, roller, whitecap, white horse; ripple, wavelet, breaker, comber: A huge wave tossed me up on the beach. 2 surge, swell, welling up, ground swell, movement, flood, upsurge, uprising, current, tide: The period is marked by a wave of materialism and greed that swamped all morality and integrity. 3 signal, sign, gesticulation, gesture: Was his wave intended for you or for me? --v. 4 undulate, billow, move to and fro, flap, flutter, quiver, flip-flop, swing, sway, ripple, oscillate, zigzag, fluctuate, shake; wag, whiffle, wigwag, wiggle, waggle, brandish: The streamer waved slowly in the quickening breeze. Stop waving that knife at me! 5 signal, sign, indicate, signify; gesture, gesticulate: Hazel waved goodbye from the train.
WEAK|0|adj. 1 feeble, frail, fragile, unsubstantial, flimsy, breakable, frangible, delicate, rickety, unsteady, unsound, decrepit, shaky, infirm: That chair is too weak for you to stand on. 2 frail, infirm, debilitated, enervated, delicate, sickly, anaemic, wasted, decrepit, puny, effete, worn out, tired, exhausted: When I last saw Tindell he was so weak he could hardly lift his brandy glass. 3 unassertive, retiring, namby-pamby, spineless, irresolute, impotent, ineffectual, ineffective, incompetent, feckless, inept, wishy-washy, timid, meek, craven, timorous, cowardly, pusillanimous, lily-livered, chicken-hearted, Colloq chicken, yellow: We know which is the weaker partner in that marriage, don't we? 4 feeble, lame, half-baked, poor, miserable, unconvincing, unpersuasive, empty, shallow, flimsy, hollow, pathetic, pitiful, unbelievable, untenable: Edward made some weak excuse for being late. I found Mona's argument against birth control very weak indeed. 5 weak-minded, dim-witted, dull-witted, slow-witted, foolish, feeble-minded, simple, simple-minded, soft-headed, stupid, dull, moronic, imbecilic, Colloq dumb: They seek out people of weaker intelligence and make fools of them. 6 faint, dim, poor, dull, pale, faded, indistinct, vague, hazy, imperceptible, indiscernible, unclear, blurred, blurry, muzzy, wavering, faltering, ill-defined, feeble, flickering, subdued: I could hardly see her face in the weak light of the candle. 7 feeble, subdued, low, soft, hushed, muffled, muted, almost inaudible, stifled, indistinct: When the victim finally spoke, his voice was very weak. 8 See watery, 1, above. 9 weak point. See weakness, 3, below.
WEAR|0|v. 1 be dressed or clothed in, dress in, put on, don, be in, step or get into or in, have on, sport: I shall wear my new suit tonight. 2 display, show, exhibit, have, adopt, assume: I wondered why she wore such a curious expression. 3 Often, wear down or away or off. damage, impair, harm, fray, erode, abrade, corrode, rub (off): The water has worn down the rocks till they are round and shiny. The inscription on the stone is worn away. After years of use, the paint has worn off. 4 Often, wear well. last, endure, survive, hold up, bear up, stand up: I wrote to the makers telling them the shoes have worn well. 5 drag, pass slowly, creep by or along, go by gradually or tediously: The hours wore on as I waited for the test results. 6 Often, wear out. tire, fatigue, exhaust, debilitate, weary, enervate, drain, burden: You must be worn out from carrying those heavy books. 7 bore, exasperate, harass, vex, annoy, irritate, tax, strain: I find it wearing to listen to that music all day long. --n. 8 wearing, use, utilization; attire, garb, clothing, clothes, apparel, dress, gear: Did you get much wear out of your new hat? Suzanne is modelling a silver lam÷ dress for evening wear. 9 wear and tear, attrition, deterioration, damage, fraying, chafing, abrasion, erosion, corrosion, friction: As the engine ages, heavier oil is needed to offset the normal wear.
WEEP|0|v. 1 cry, shed tears, bawl, blubber, keen, sob, lament, mourn, bemoan, bewail, moan, grieve, whine, whimper, mewl, pule, snivel, Colloq blub, boohoo, Brit and Australian whinge: A small child, sitting by herself, was weeping bitterly. 2 ooze, seep, exude, drip: The wound had started weeping and needed bandaging.
WELD|0|v. 1 unite, combine, merge, fuse, connect, link, join; solder, braze, cement, bond: We felt welded together in a brotherhood that would last forever. The brace must be welded all the way along the edge. --n. 2 seam, joint, juncture, commissure: The weld must be filed down smooth.
WELL|0|adv. 1 satisfactorily, sufficiently, adequately, agreeably, nicely, (well) enough, Colloq OK or okay: Alan is doing well these days. 2 successfully, famously, marvellously, wonderfully, fabulously, incredibly, splendidly, admirably, spectacularly, excellently, superbly: Barbara and David really get along well together. 3 articulately, understandably, expressively, correctly, accurately, properly, proficiently, effectively, artistically, poetically; grammatically: Henry will make a good announcer because he speaks well. 4 comfortably, luxuriously, prosperously, extravagantly, showily, pretentiously, ostentatiously, sumptuously, grandly, opulently: How can Rita live so well with no visible income? Living well is the best revenge. 5 graciously, kindly, highly, favourably, glowingly, approvingly, warmly, genially, cordially, amiably, kind-heartedly, warm-heartedly, affectionately, lovingly: Rudolph has always spoken well of you, Aileen. 6 skilfully, expertly, adeptly, proficiently, ably: Does Anne play well enough to compete professionally? Paul sings well. 7 far, by a long way, immeasurably, (very) much; far and away, definitely, positively, obviously, clearly, plainly, manifestly, evidently, unquestionably, decidedly, beyond (the shadow of a) doubt, Colloq by a long chalk: Keep well away from the fuel tank before lighting that cigarette. She is well beyond the beginner stage. This painting is well worth what you paid. 8 good-naturedly, equably, coolly, serenely, calmly, soberly, unexcitedly, sedately: Burt took the bad news about his car very well. 9 likely, probably, in all probability, doubtlessly, without doubt, not unexpectedly, indeed: He might well say he needs no help. 10 easily, without difficulty: Though he gave her the money, he could not well spare it. 11 completely, entirely, wholly: Before she could well finish her sentence, he was out of the house. 12 thoroughly (cooked), (cooked) through and through, completely (cooked): He likes his roast beef well don...
WELT|0|n. 1 bead, ridge, seam, edge, wale, stripe: The cushion has a welt of contrasting colour binding it. 2 bruise, contusion, bump, lump, scar, weal or wale or wheal: The boy's back was covered with red welts where he had been birched.
WHET|0|v. 1 sharpen, hone, grind, file, put an edge on, strop: He whetted the knife on an oiled stone till it was razor-sharp. 2 pique, sharpen, awaken, arouse, stimulate, kindle, fire, increase, excite, enhance: The cruise on Bill's yacht whetted my appetite to own a small sailing-boat.
WHIP|0|v. 1 beat, thrash, lash, flog, horsewhip, scourge, switch, cane, birch, flagellate, leather, spank, strap; castigate, chastise, punish, discipline; Slang tan, US wale: They learnt right from wrong because father whipped them when they were wrong. 2 trounce, defeat, beat, conquer, overwhelm, rout, overcome, overpower, thwart, check, best, worst, drub, stop, outdo, Colloq lick, wipe the floor with, batter, Slang pulverize, clobber, destroy, ruin, murder, slaughter, kill, squash, smash, US cream: Karpilova whipped O'Meara 6-0, 6-2 at today's match. 3 run, scamper, scoot, race, scurry, scramble, hurry, flit, rush, dash, dart, Colloq zip, zoom, skedaddle: I whipped round the corner and dived behind a tree to hide. 4 beat, whisk, fluff up: Whip the egg-whites till they are stiff. 5 Nautical seize, bind, wind, fasten, tie: The end of the line is whipped to prevent its unravelling. 6 whip out. yank out, jerk out, pull (out), whisk out, present, exhibit, flash, produce: He suddenly whipped out a gun and started shooting. 7 whip up. a stir up, agitate, arouse, rouse, work up, excite, incite: The rabble-rousers whipped the crowd into a frenzy. b improvise, put together or assemble or prepare quickly or hurriedly, Colloq knock together, knock up, US slap together: Tina whipped up a snack while we were waiting for Ken to arrive. --n. 8 scourge, knout, lash, cat-o'-nine-tails, rawhide, quirt, horsewhip, bull-whip, cane, birch, switch, thong, (riding-)crop, Colloq cat: We dreaded it when Dr Hazen eyed the whip hung behind the classroom door.
WIDE|0|adj. 1 spacious, roomy, ample, extensive, broad: The road is wide enough for two cars to pass. If the book is set in wider type, it will have more pages. 2 broad, extensive, comprehensive, encyclopedic or encyclopaedic, inclusive, far-reaching, wide-ranging, widespread: He has wide interests, from music to archaeology to sport. 3 extreme, considerable, substantial, sizeable, major, big, large; widespread: There have been wide fluctuations in market prices. 4 wide of the mark. off the mark, astray, deviant, deviating, off (the) target, not on target, inappropriate: Forecasts from analysts were based on erroneous assumptions and proved to be very wide of the mark. --adv. 5 astray, afield, wide of the mark, off the mark, off (the) target, to one side: He took careless aim and the shot went wide. 6 all the way, as much as possible, fully, completely, to the utmost: The dentist said, 'Open wide'. When I heard the drill, I was suddenly wide awake.
WIFE|0|n. mate, helpmeet, helpmate, spouse, bride, partner, Colloq better half, little woman, the missis or missus, old lady or woman, ball and chain, Slang trouble and strife: Doesn't your wife mind your going out every night?
WILD|0|adj. 1 undomesticated, untamed, unbroken, savage, feral: The only four-legged animals inhabiting the island were wild pigs. 2 uncultivated, uninhabited, waste, desert, desolate, virgin, unpopulated, empty, trackless, barren, lifeless; deserted: The cottage overlooks an expanse of wild moorland. 3 savage, uncivilized, barbarous, primitive, rude, uncultured, uncultivated, brutish, barbaric, fierce, ferocious: Some early explorers studied the wild people they encountered in far-off lands. 4 uncontrolled, unrestricted, unrestrained, untrammelled, unbridled, unfettered, unshackled, free, unchecked, lively, impetuous, unconventional, undisciplined, disobedient, insubordinate, self-willed, wayward, mutinous, rowdy(ish), boisterous, unruly, tumultuous, turbulent, tempestuous, uproarious; uncontrollable, unmanageable, ungovernable, intractable, unrestrainable: Peter led quite a wild youth. We cannot cope with their wild behaviour after they have had too much to drink. 5 mad, maniac(al), crazed, crazy, irrational, distracted, frenzied, frantic, distraught, hysterical, raving, raging, unhinged, demented, delirious; berserk; run amok or amuck: William had a wild look about him. Nellie has been driven wild by the pressures of business. 6 exciting, excited, vehement, passionate, romantic, turbulent, chaotic, tempestuous, reckless, madcap: At the time, Ernest was having a wild love affair with Charles's widow. 7 absurd, irrational, unreasonable, extravagant, fantastic, imprudent, foolish, foolhardy, impractical, impracticable, unpractical, unworkable, ridiculous, reckless, silly, giddy, flighty, madcap, outrageous, preposterous, bizarre, strange, odd, peculiar, Colloq offbeat: He lost thousands on some wild scheme for reducing shipping costs by filling bubble packing with helium. 8 tousled, wind-blown, unkempt, dishevelled, untidy, disordered, disorderly, messed-up, Colloq mussed-up: Her hair was in wild disarray. 9 enthusiastic, avid, eager, agog, Colloq crazy, mad, daft, dotty, ...
WILE|0|n. Often, wiles. trick, stratagem, ruse, artifice, subterfuge, dodge, trap, snare, manoeuvre, ploy, contrivance, move, gambit, plot, scheme, machination, Colloq (little) game: You won't get far trying to work your wiles on me, young lady.
WILL|0|n. 1 desire, wish, longing, liking, inclination, disposition, drive, purposefulness, purpose, intent, intention, resolve, commitment, resolution, determination; will-power: Where there's a will there's a way. Some believe that taking medication is against God's will. Marguerite seems to have lost the will to live. 2 choice, wishes, desire, inclination: He was forced to submit against his will. 3 (last will and) testament, last wishes: In accordance with his will, Josiah was buried at sea. 4 at will. as or when (one) pleases or wishes or thinks fit(ting), at (one's) desire or whim or pleasure or discretion: If he brings his own car, then he can leave at will. --v. 5 want, desire, wish, choose, see fit, make, compel, force, command, order, ordain, require: When she willed him to appear, there was a flash of lightning and he was there. 6 leave, bequeath, devise, hand down or on, pass on, transfer; settle upon or on: My great-uncle Philip willed me his collection of 19th-century theatre memorabilia.
WILT|0|v. 1 sag, droop, wither, shrink, shrivel (up or away), diminish: My house-plants wilted because they weren't watered. 2 sag, droop, bow, weaken, sink, wane, wither, lose courage or nerve, flag, dwindle, languish: The lad wilted under the stern glare of the headmaster.
WILY|0|adj. shrewd, cunning, crafty, sly, artful, guileful, clever, foxy, vulpine, disingenuous, shifty, scheming, plotting, calculating, designing, sharp, canny, deceitful, deceiving, deceptive, treacherous, perfidious, false, double-dealing, dishonest, underhand(ed), tricky, smooth, slick, slippery, oily, unctuous, Scots and No. Eng. pawky, Colloq cagey, crooked, two-timing, Slang chiefly Brit fly: Rats are wily and cunning, and have to be taken seriously.
WIND|0|n. 1 breeze, zephyr, puff, gust, breath, draught, light air, current (of air): A gentle wind wafted our little boat across the bay. 2 puffery, bombast, rodomontade, bluster, boasting, braggadocio, vain speech, blather, (idle or empty) talk, fustian, nonsense, twaddle, humbug, babble, gibberish, Colloq gab, hot air, claptrap, hogwash, rot, hooey, boloney, Slang Brit (load of (old)) cobblers: I went there for advice and all I got was a lot of wind. 3 gas, flatulence, windiness, flatus, borborygmus (= 'stomach rumbling (as from gas)'), heartburn, Taboo slang fart (= 'anal release of gas'): I have to take a pill to relieve this wind. 4 before the wind. Nautical downwind, off the wind: We were racing before the wind with every scrap of sail flying. 5 break wind. Taboo slang fart: It is considered rude to break wind. 6 get or have wind of. hear of, learn of, come to know, pick up, be made or become aware of, gather, understand, hear on the grapevine, Colloq hear tell of: We got wind of the company's plans to close this plant. 7 get or have the wind up. take fright, become frightened or afraid or apprehensive: When I heard a window being raised I got the wind up. 8 in the wind. around, about, rumoured, in the air, detectable, discernible, discoverable, imminent, impending, approaching, close (at hand), about to happen or take place or occur, afoot, in the offing, near, on the way, Colloq Brit on the cards, US in the cards: We knew that a change was in the wind, but never expected the chairman to resign. 9 off the wind. See 5, above. 10 on the or a wind. Nautical upwind, windward, to the wind, into (the teeth or the eye of) the wind; near the wind Because 'Syrena' was a sloop, she could sail closer on the wind than the schooner. 11 put the wind up. scare, frighten, alarm: The leakage at the nuclear plant really put the wind up everyone living in the area. 12 sail close or near to the wind. take risks, throw caution to the winds, play with fire, skate on thin ice, take (one'...
WIPE|0|v. 1 Sometimes, wipe off or out or up. rub, clean (off or out or up), cleanse; dry (off or out or up), dust (off), mop (up), swab, sponge (off or up): For God's sake, wipe your nose! Please wipe the crumbs off the table when you've finished eating. Stop crying and wipe up the spilt milk. 2 Often, wipe off. remove, erase, take off or away, get rid of: Wipe that grin off your face, stranger. 3 wipe out. kill (off), annihilate, massacre, destroy, finish (off), dispose of, eradicate, obliterate, exterminate, do away with, stamp out, get rid of, remove, wipe off the face of the earth: Scientists have succeeded in wiping out smallpox.
WIRY|0|adj. muscular, sinewy, lean, lank, thin and strong, tough and flexible: He was a stocky and wiry little man, rather like a short-legged terrier.
WISE|0|adj. 1 sage, sagacious, judicious, reasonable, commonsensical, prudent, sensible, insightful, sapient, understanding, rational, sound, clear-sighted, clear-headed, discerning, perspicacious, perspicuous, percipient, perceptive, intelligent, acute, astute, sharp, shrewd, crafty, clever, bright, quick-witted, smart, brilliant, long-headed, Colloq brainy: Among the wisest of men were Solomon, Confucius, Buddha, and, perhaps, Aristotle. 2 knowledgeable, learned, enlightened, informed, erudite; (well-)educated, knowing, well-read, well-versed, lettered, scholarly: We saw to it that they escaped, and the police were none the wiser. Wise heads prevailed at the college on what constituted worthwhile research. 3 well-advised, advisable, judicious, sensible, expedient, reasonable, strategic, tactful, tactical, prudent, politic, discreet, diplomatic, well-thought-out, well-considered, proper, fitting, appropriate, meet: Do you think it wise to punish the child so severely? 4 put wise (to). inform or advise or warn (of or about): If you must know how he found out, it was Myrna who put him wise. Did she also put him wise to where the money is hidden? 5 wise to. aware or knowledgeable or informed of or about, sensitive to, on to or onto, Colloq in the know about: You are wrong if you think she isn't wise to your little tricks. Get wise to what's going on, Man. --v. 6 wise up (to). become informed or aware (of or about), wake up (to), Colloq get wise (to) or in the know (about): If Cooley doesn't wise up, he'll be in deep trouble. Was it you who wised Meg up to the fact that Tom no longer cares?
WISH|0|v. 1 desire, want; yearn, crave, long, hope, hanker, have a mind, (have a) fancy, choose, care: I wish you'd go now. If you had Aladdin's lamp, what would you wish for? 2 require, request, demand, order, specify: Did you wish lemon or milk in your tea? 3 foist or force or thrust or impose upon, Colloq fob off on or upon, palm off on: The job of treasurer was wished on me when Jock left. --n. 4 desire, request, whim, want, craving, longing, hankering: Your every wish is my command. 5 desire, longing, craving, need, yearning, hankering, passion, keenness, thirst, appetite, hunger, whim, urge, liking, fondness, fancy, preference, predisposition, disposition, inclination, Colloq yen, Slang itch: She expressed a wish for nightingale tongues, truffles, and champagne.
WISP|0|n. shred, scrap, strand, thread, snippet, tuft, lock: The laboratory matched the wisp of hair found in the victim's hand with the hair of the suspect.
WORD|0|n. 1 (little) talk, (brief) conversation, chat, discussion, consultation, dialogue, huddle, parley, téte-å-téte, chit-chat, confabulation, conference, interview, Colloq powwow, confab: Could I have a word with you before you leave for the day? 2 news, intelligence, information, facts, data, report, story, tidings, account, communiqu÷, bulletin, dispatch or despatch, advice, message, Colloq low-down, Slang info, dope, Brit gen, US poop: Have you had any word about the situation in the Middle East? 3 name, term, designation, locution, appellation, expression, phrase: What is the word for 'write' in Greek? 4 promise, pledge, vow, oath, (solemn) word of honour, undertaking, assurance, warrant, guarantee or guaranty, warranty: You have my word that I won't mention this to anyone. 5 utterance, expression, declaration, statement: Let me give you a word of warning, my friend. 6 suggestion, hint, scintilla, bit: I promise that I won't breathe a word of this to anyone. 7 command, order, signal, direction, instruction, Colloq US high sign: I shall not press the red button till you give the word. 8 in a word. succinctly, briefly, in brief, in a few words, concisely, in short, in summary, in sum, not to mince words, to make a long story short, when all is said and done, in the final analysis, not to beat about the bush, Colloq in a nutshell: His bedside manner was, in a word, menacing. 9 words. a quarrel, dispute, argument, unpleasantness: Paul and Kitty had words and are not on speaking terms. b lyrics, book, libretto, text: Did Irving Berlin write the words as well as the music to his songs? --v. 10 put (forth), say, couch, express, phrase, utter, state, term, style, set forth: Had you worded your complaint in politer language, you might have spared yourself a punch in the eye.
WORK|0|n. 1 labour, toil, effort, drudgery, travail, exertion, industry: Few people make it to the top and stay there without hard work. 2 employment, business, occupation, vocation, calling, profession, trade, line, m÷tier, career, livelihood, job, post, position, situation: Does your work as a test pilot interfere much with your home life? 3 task, function, duty, assignment, charge, responsibility, chore, commission, undertaking, stint: When you are finished with that work, clean out the cellar. 4 feat, achievement, creation, accomplishment, opus, handiwork, oeuvre, production, composition, piece, master-work, masterpiece, chef-d'oeuvre, magnum opus, output: Some of Edwin's recent works have won prizes. 5 in work. in production, under way, being done, in the works, being planned, in the planning stage(s): The budget has been approved and the project is already in work. 6 out of work. unemployed, idle, jobless, at liberty, between engagements, available, free, Brit redundant, Colloq Brit on the dole, US on or collecting unemployment: How long have you been out of work? --v. 7 labour, toil, exert oneself, sweat, moil, slave (away), peg away, slog (away): His father worked in the mines from the age of nine till he died of black-lung disease at forty. 8 till, plough, farm, cultivate: Would he have been healthier and longer-lived had he worked the land? 9 have a job, hold (down) a post or position, earn a living, be employed: His wife works as a designer in a Parisian fashion house. 10 control, manage, manipulate, manoeuvre, wield, handle, operate, use, make use of, utilize, exploit, deal with, bring into play: Are you sure you know how to work all those dials and buttons? 11 function, operate, run, go, develop, turn out, Colloq pan out: Are you sure that the plan is working to your advantage? 12 function, operate, run, go: The drill works better if you turn on the power. 13 knead, mould, form, fashion, shape; mix, stir, incorporate: Work the clay into long, narrow strips. T...
WORN|0|adj. 1 shabby, threadbare, tatty, tattered, ragged, frayed: Burt wears an old, worn tweed jacket when he's around the house. 2 haggard, drawn: He looked anxiously at his mother's thin, worn face. 3 worn out. tired, fatigued, exhausted, frazzled, spent, jaded, played out, haggard, drawn, the worse for wear, Colloq dog-tired, all in, done in, Slang dead (on one's feet), beat, US pooped: I was completely worn out from climbing those stairs.
WRAP|0|v. 1 Sometimes, wrap up. swathe, swaddle, bind, cover, enwrap, envelop, wind, enshroud, shroud, enfold, fold, muffle, enclose, sheathe, encase; pack, package, do up, gift-wrap: Wrap up well - it's cold outside. I've just finished wrapping some Christmas presents. 2 wrapped up in. immersed in, submerged in, buried in, absorbed in, engrossed in, bound up in, involved in, occupied with or by or in, engaged in, dedicated to, devoted to: While Irma is completely wrapped up in her grandchildren, Henry is wrapped up in his books. 3 wrap up. a complete, conclude, finish, end, bring to a close, terminate, wind up, settle, tidy up: We'll be able to wrap things up in an hour and go home. b Wrap up! Be silent!, Be quiet!, Stop talking!, Hold your tongue!, Slang Shut up!, Shut your face!, Shut your trap!, Shut your mouth!, Brit Put a sock in it!: He would have kept on wittering away if she hadn't told him to wrap up. --n. 4 stole, shawl, mantle, poncho, serape, cloak, cape: Sonia adjusted her evening wrap before going out to dinner.
YANK|0|v. 1 jerk, jolt, tug, wrench, snatch, hitch: He yanked the chair from beneath me just as I sat down. --n. 2 jerk, jolt, tug, wrench, snatch, hitch: Give two yanks on the rope when you want me to pull you up.
YARN|0|n. 1 thread, fibre, strand: I haven't enough yarn to finish knitting these socks. 2 tale, story, account, narrative, anecdote; tall tale, fable, fabrication, fiction, cock-and-bull story, Colloq whopper, Brit fishing story, US fish story, fish tale: The old salt had many yarns to spin during the long evenings by the fire.
YELL|0|v. 1 shout, scream, bellow, howl, screech, yowl, roar, bawl, caterwaul, squall, yelp, Colloq holler: 'Stop yelling at your sister!', shouted my father. --n. 2 shout, scream, cry, bellow, howl, screech, yowl, roar, caterwaul, squall, yelp, Colloq holler: I think I heard a yell for help.
ZERO|0|n. 1 nil, null, nothing, nought or naught, aught, cipher, Cricket duck, Colloq nix, US goose-egg, nada, niente, Slang Brit (sweet) Fanny Adams or F.A., bugger-all, US zilch: Temperatures have remained below zero all day. The visiting team won three games, we won zero. 2 (rock) bottom, nadir: On a scale of one to ten, she is a zero. 3 nobody, nothing, nonentity, Slang US nebbish, bupkis: That fellow she married is a real zero. --v. 4 zero in on. focus on, pinpoint, fix on, home in on, concentrate on, bring to bear on: We zeroed in on the problem and then rapidly found the answer.
ZEST|0|n. 1 spice, relish, gusto, tang, pepper, ginger, piquancy, pungency, edge, bite, flavour, Colloq zing, zip, pizazz: Put in a little of my home-made sauce to add some zest. 2 eagerness, zestfulness, exuberance, appetite, interest, enthusiasm, hunger, thirst: Where does Sidney get his zest for life?
ZONE|0|n. area, quarter, district, region, sector, section, sphere, belt, territory, province, realm, domain, precinct, bailiwick, department, terrain, circle, locality, locale, Slang US turf: A duty-free zone will allow for quicker transshipment of goods. The northern and southern hemispheres each have a frigid, temperate, and torrid zone.
ACT|0|n. 1 deed, action, undertaking, operation, step, move; feat, exploit; accomplishment, achievement: The first act of the new commission was to ban smoking in public places. 2 performance, show, bit, skit, stand, routine, turn, sketch, Colloq thing, Slang US shtick: Stand-up comedians do their acts in nightclubs. 3 performance, pretence, posture, stance, feigning, front, fake, dissimulation, show, deception, hoax, affectation: She didn't mean what she said - it was just an act. 4 bill, law, decree, edict, statute, order, ordinance, command, mandate, resolution, measure, enactment: Are the opening hours of public houses in England regulated by act of Parliament? --v. 5 behave (oneself), carry on, deport oneself, comport oneself, conduct oneself: I don't know how she'll act when we're in public. 6 perform, play, do: She is acting in the West End. 7 portray, represent, impersonate, act out, personify, take or play the part or role of, personate: Reginald acts the fool whenever he has had too much to drink. 8 feign, pretend, counterfeit, fake, dissemble, make believe, sham, simulate, dissimulate, posture: You may think him sincere, but I know he is just acting. 9 take effect, work, operate, function, perform: This drug will act only if taken with meals.
ADD|0|v. 1 join, unite, combine, annex: 5 + 3 denotes that 3 is to be added to 5. 2 total, sum, sum up, combine, count up, reckon, Brit tot (up), US tote (up): The computer can add all those figures in a few seconds. 3 continue, go on: 'And I won't take no for an answer', she added. 4 add to. increase, enlarge, amplify, augment, supplement: His articles have added greatly to his reputation as a financial analyst.
AGE|0|n. 1 lifetime, duration, length of existence; life-span: The age of a stag is judged chiefly by its antlers. She was sixteen years of age. 2 maturity, discretion; majority, adulthood, seniority: When he comes of age he will inherit millions. 3 period, stage, time: Among these people, both boys and girls undergo rites of passage at the age of puberty. He is a man of middle age. 4 long time, aeon or esp. US eon; years: I haven't seen you for an age! The noise went on for ages. 5 era, epoch, period, time: The 18th century was known as the Augustan Age in England. --v. 6 grow old(er), mature, ripen: O, Matilda, I age too fast for my years! You must first age the whisky in the barrel, then bottle it.
AID|0|v. 1 help, support, assist, facilitate, back, abet, uphold, promote; succour, relieve, subsidize: The invasion was aided by Richard's subjects. He salved his conscience by aiding a local charity. --n. 2 help, support, assistance, backing, relief, benefit, service, succour, comfort: He was convicted of giving aid to the enemy in time of war. 3 funding, subsidy, subvention; grant-money, grant, grant-in-aid, scholarship: He could never have gone to university without aid from the endowment.
AIL|0|v. 1 trouble, afflict, affect, bother, distress, upset, worry, make ill or sick, pain, hurt: I cannot imagine what ails him, and the doctor can find nothing wrong. 2 suffer, be or feel ill or poorly or unwell or indisposed, US be sick: Granny has been ailing lately.
AIM|0|v. 1 direct, point, focus, train, level: The guns of the fort are aimed at the narrow pass. 2 aim at. focus on, have designs on, aspire to, plan for or on, set one's sights on, seek, strive for, try for, wish, want: Edward aimed at absolute dominion over that kingdom. 3 seek, intend, plan: I aim to retire at fifty, if not before. --n. 4 direction, pointing, focus, focusing or focussing, sighting: His aim is so bad that he can't hit the side of a barn with a shotgun. 5 purpose, goal, ambition, desire, aspiration, object, end, objective, target, intent, intention, plan: It was never her aim in life to be rich. The aim of the book is set forth in the Foreword.
AIR|0|n. 1 atmosphere, ambience, aura, climate, feeling, sense, mood, quality: This restaurant has a delightful air about it. 2 breeze, zephyr, current, draught; breath, puff, wind: Light airs sprang up from the south. 3 manner, style, appearance, aura, feeling, bearing, quality, flavour: Louis has a lugubrious air about him. 4 melody, tune, song, music: She was humming airs from some Italian opera. 5 airs. pretension, pretence, show, affectedness; haughtiness, hauteur, arrogance, superiority, superciliousness: He puts on such airs since he got his knighthood. --v. 6 ventilate, freshen, refresh, aerate: The chambermaid is airing the room, so you can't go in now. 7 show off, parade, display, exhibit; publish, broadcast, circulate, publicize, make public or known, reveal, expose, disclose, divulge, tell, express, declare: Once again Andrew is airing his views on modern art.
ART|0|n. 1 skill, skilfulness, ingenuity, aptitude, talent, artistry, craftsmanship; knowledge, expertise; craft, technique, adroitness, dexterity, Colloq know-how: Little art is required to plant turnips. 2 artistry, artisticness; taste, tastefulness: High art differs from low art in possessing an excess of beauty in addition to its truth. 3 craft, technique, business, profession, skill: The fishermen can't employ their art with much success in so troubled a sea. 4 knack, aptitude, faculty, technique, mastery; dexterity, adroitness: Conversation may be esteemed a gift, not an art. You have acquired the art of insulting people without their realizing it. 5 trickery, craftiness, cunning, wiliness, slyness, guile, deceit, duplicity, artfulness, cleverness, astuteness: You have to admire the art with which she wraps him round her little finger. 6 arts. wiles, schemes, stratagems, artifices, subterfuges, tricks; manoeuvres,: She was expert in the arts which ladies sometimes condescend to employ for captivation.
ASK|0|v. 1 question, interrogate, query, quiz; inquire or enquire (of): Let's ask the policeman for information. Just ask directions of any passer-by. I merely asked if you were going my way. 2 demand, require, expect, request: Doing his laundry is a lot to ask. 3 beg, apply (to), appeal (to), seek (from), solicit (from), petition, plead (to), beg, beseech, pray, entreat, implore: In the streets, thousands of beggars ask passers-by for alms. 4 invite, bid, summon: Nellie asked me to dinner. 5 ask after or about. inquire or enquire after or about: My sister asked after you - wanted to know how you were getting along. 6 ask for. a invite, attract, encourage, provoke: You're asking for trouble if you walk alone through that neighbourhood after dark. b request, seek: We asked for more time to finish the project.
BAD|0|adj. 1 poor, wretched, inferior, defective, awful, worthless, miserable, egregious, execrable, substandard, unsatisfactory, disappointing, inadequate, non-standard, Colloq lousy, rotten, crummy, Slang Brit grotty, naff: Sometimes they would send him a letter, but he was a bad correspondent. We went to see a rather bad play the other night. 2 corrupt, polluted, vitiated, debased, base, vile, foul, rotten, miasmic, noxious, mephitic, unhealthy, poisonous, injurious, dangerous, harmful, hurtful, pernicious, deleterious, ruinous: It wasn't healthy to be so near the bad air of the sewer. 3 evil, ill, immoral, wicked, vicious, vile, sinful, depraved, awful, villainous, corrupt, amoral, criminal, wrong, unspeakable: The man was thoroughly bad and deserved everything he got. 4 unpleasant, offensive, disagreeable, inclement, severe, awful, unfavourable, adverse, inclement, unpleasant, Colloq lousy, rotten: Surely you're not going sailing in this bad weather?! 5 unfavourable, unlucky, unpropitious, unfortunate, inauspicious, troubled, grim, distressing, discouraging, unpleasant: Agreeing to do that job might yet turn out to have been a bad decision. 6 off, tainted, spoilt or spoiled, mouldy, stale, rotten, decayed, putrefied, putrid, contaminated: The fridge isn't working and all the food has gone bad. She ate a bad egg and felt ill the next day. 7 irascible, ill-tempered, grouchy, irritable, nasty, peevish, cross, crotchety, crabby, cranky, curmudgeonly: Don't go near the boss - he's been in a bad mood all day. 8 sorry, regretful, apologetic, contrite, rueful, sad, conscience-stricken, remorseful, upset: She felt bad about having invited me. 9 sad, depressed, unhappy, dejected, downhearted, disconsolate, melancholy; inconsolable: I feel bad about you losing your purse. 10 naughty, ill-behaved, misbehaving, disobedient, unruly, wild; mischievous: Ronnie isn't a bad boy, he's just bored. 11 distressing, severe, grave, serious, terrible, awful, painful: He was laid up with a ba...
BAG|0|n. 1 sack, shopping bag, reticule, string bag, Chiefly Brit carrier bag, Scots or dialect poke, pocket: They have helpers at the supermarket who will carry your bags to your car for you. 2 baggage, luggage, valise, satchel, grip, suitcase, overnight bag, carry-on luggage or bag, Gladstone bag, carpet-bag, portmanteau, toilet kit or case, sponge bag; briefcase, attach÷ case, dispatch- or despatch-case: Boarding in London I flew to Buenos Aires while my bag went to Seoul. 3 purse, handbag, evening bag, wallet, Highland dress sporran: She reached into her bag and felt the gun that the Commander had given her. 4 crone, hag, beast, ogress, gorgon, nightmare, witch, harridan, Archaic beldam, Slang old bat, dog, monster, US two-bagger: Derek has been romancing some old bag for her money. 5 occupation, hobby, avocation, business, vocation, department, concern, affair, Colloq lookout, worry, Slang thing: Peter's bag at the moment is learning to play the violin. --v. 6 catch, trap, ensnare, snare, entrap, capture, land; kill, shoot: We bagged six pheasants and two partridges this morning.
BAN|0|v. 1 prohibit, forbid, outlaw, proscribe, interdict, bar, disallow, debar: They have banned smoking in all public places. --n. 2 prohibition, taboo, proscription, interdiction, interdict; embargo, boycott: They have put a ban on the sale of alcoholic beverages. The ban against importing firearms is strictly enforced.
BAR|0|n. 1 rod, shaft, pole, stick, stake: A heavy iron bar is used to tamp the dynamite into place in the hole. 2 strip, stripe, band, belt; streak, line: The company trade mark is a narrow red bar around the barrel of every ball-point pen. 3 barrier, obstacle, obstruction, barricade, hindrance, block, deterrent, impediment; ban, embargo: A steel bar was across the entrance. Her pride proved a bar to her success. There is a bar against importing spirits. 4 sandbar, shallow, shoal, bank, sandbank: Because the keel is too deep, the sloop will be unable to cross the bar till high tide. 5 tribunal, court, courtroom, lawcourt, bench: The former mayor was found guilty of corruption at the bar of public opinion. 6 bar-room, saloon, public house, caf÷, lounge, cocktail lounge, tavern, taproom, canteen, Brit local, wine bar; Colloq pub; Slang boozer, gin-mill: I was at the bar on my third beer when she walked in. 7 counter: We had a quick lunch at the sandwich bar. --v. 8 fasten, close up, secure, shut up; lock, lock up, padlock: We tried to get in through the window, but they had barred it. 9 block, obstruct, stop, stay, hinder, keep (out), shut out, exclude, prevent, forbid, prohibit, set aside; forestall, impede, hamper, retard, balk, barricade; ban, embargo: After his behaviour, he was barred from the club for a year. A huge man in an ill-fitting dinner-jacket barred my way. The regulations bar the import of firearms. --prep. 10 except (for), excepting, excluding, barring, outside (of), save for, aside from, but: It's all over now bar the shouting.
BEG|0|v. 1 entreat, beseech, plead (with), crave, implore, importune, wheedle, cajole, supplicate (with), pray; ask for, request: She begged me to stay. 2 solicit, sponge, Colloq cadge, scrounge, US panhandle: When he was an alcoholic, he used to beg drinks off everyone.
BET|0|n. 1 wager, stake, risk, venture, Brit punt, Colloq Brit flutter: He could not afford more than a small bet. --v. 2 wager, stake, gamble, risk, hazard, play, lay, put, chance, venture, Brit punt: Every week he bet a small amount on the lottery.
BID|0|v. 1 offer, make an offer (for), tender, proffer: We bid ø500 for the painting. 2 Archaic or literary ask, pray, press, entreat, beg, request, suggest, invite: She bade me leave her to mourn alone. 3 Formal command, demand, order, tell, enjoin, dictate: Please bid him enter. Custom bade him blow his horn.
BIG|0|adj. 1 large, great, grand; huge, enormous, immense, gigantic, giant, tremendous, colossal, Brobdingnagian, jumbo, Colloq Brit socking or whacking big or great, US humongous: We live in a big house in the country. 2 ample, hefty, huge, bulky, fat, obese; large, hulking, beefy, burly, brawny, strapping, gargantuan, elephantine, enormous, gigantic, immense, monstrous: The sumo wrestler was one of the biggest men I'd ever seen. 3 tall, grown, mature, grown-up, large: Christopher is certainly big for his age. 4 important, significant, outstanding, weighty, consequential, major, grave, momentous, notable, noteworthy, telling: Changing careers can be one of the biggest decisions of your life. 5 important, prominent, illustrious, noteworthy, notable, renowned, eminent, distinguished, esteemed: Mr Johnson is a big man in our town. 6 generous, magnanimous, charitable, unselfish, giving: It was very big of her to take on the support of the orphanage. 7 popular, famous, well-known, successful: That band is very big with the kids these days. 8 capital, large, upper case, majuscule: Always spell London with a big L. --adv. 9 pompously, boastfully, conceitedly, arrogantly, pretentiously: Alfred talks big at home, but he's very modest when he's with his friends. 10 successfully, well, oustandingly,effectively: I think your speech went over big with those opposed to the new budget.
BIT|0|n. 1 morsel, piece, scrap, fragment, shred, particle, grain, crumb: We didn't have a bit of food in the house. 2 jot, tittle, whit, scintilla, trace, touch, hint, suggestion, suspicion, particle, iota, speck, atom: There's not the slightest bit of evidence to link her with the crime. 3 moment, minute, second, flash, Colloq two shakes (of a lamb's tail): I'll be with you in a little bit. 4 piece, share, equity, segment, portion, part, fraction: He owns a little bit of the business.
BOG|0|n. 1 swamp, fen, marsh, quagmire: The peat bogs have yielded interesting fossils. 2 bog down. impede, slow, hamper, encumber, stymie, stick, handicap, clog, check, set back, hold back: Traffic is bogged down owing to roadworks.
BOW|0|n. 1 nod; curtsy or curtsey, salaam, kowtow, genuflection, prostration, obeisance: We all bowed respectfully before the emperor. --v. 2 defer, yield, submit, give in, bend, bow down, capitulate: I bow to your greater knowledge of the subject. 3 bend, incline, lower: The servants bowed their heads when the master entered. 4 weigh down, crush, overload, bend down, burden: Michael was bowed down by the responsibilities of his new family. 5 nod, curtsy or curtsey, salaam, kowtow, genuflect, prostrate oneself, salaam, make obeisance: The natives bowed as the king passed by.
BOY|0|n. 1 lad, youth, young man, stripling, youngster, schoolboy, fellow, urchin, brat, Colloq kid, guy, small fry, little shaver: There were two girls and five boys in my family. 2 servant, house-servant, attendant; lackey, slave, Archaic knave, varlet, rogue, wretch, caitiff: Here! Boy! Bring me another gin and tonic. 3 old boy. Brit (public) schoolmate; friend, chum, pal, Archaic old bean, old egg, old crumpet, dear boy; crony: I say, old boy, care for a rubber of bridge? Carruthers wouldn't be where he is now if it weren't for the old-boy network.
BUG|0|n. 1 insect, beetle, larva, grub, caterpillar, butterfly, mosquito, fly, spider, Colloq Brit creepy-crawly, US no-see-em: There's a bug on your collar. 2 microbe, germ, virus; disease, affliction, illness, sickness, ailment, disorder, malady, infection; condition, complaint, infirmity, indisposition: She's caught some kind of bug and won't be in for a few days. 3 obsession, craze, fad, mania, rage: Almost everyone in those days succumbed to the hula hoop bug. 4 enthusiast, faddist, fan, fanatic; hobbyist: She's turned into a fruit machine bug. 5 listening device; microphone, transmitter, electronic eavesdropper, tap: They planted a bug in the ambassador's telephone. 6 fault, error, mistake, failing, shortcoming, Colloq hang-up, glitch: There's a bug in the program that's preventing the list from being sorted. They can't market the device till they've ironed out all the bugs. --v. 7 annoy, irritate, pester, irk, harass, bother: I wish Mum'd stop bugging me about my homework. 8 tap, spy on: They bugged her phone and recorded all her conversations.
BUM|0|n. 1 buttocks, posterior, hindquarters, fundament, behind, rump, bottom, behind, derriëre, rear end, backside, seat, rear, Colloq Brit arse, US fanny, can, hinie, tush, tushy or tushie, tokus or tochis or tuchis, keister or keester, ass: Why don't you get off your fat bum and go out and get a job?! 2 tramp, panhandler, beggar, vagrant, loafer, drifter, vagabond, hobo, derelict, gypsy; Brit caird, tinker, traveller; US (shopping-)bag lady: Along the Bowery the doorways and pavements are strewn with bums. 3 improper, unjustified, false, trumped up, untrue, fabricated, made-up, bogus: That auto theft charge was a bum rap, but he still served 18 months. --adj. 4 bad, awful, unfair, dishonest, poor, rotten, Slang lousy, crummy: I still think you got a bum deal on that toaster. --v. 5 borrow, beg, sponge, Colloq scrounge, cadge, touch, put the touch on, US mooch, hit, hit up: Can I bum a cigarette from you?
BUY|0|v. 1 purchase; acquire, obtain, get, procure, gain, come by, secure: Where did you buy that hat? 2 accept, allow, take, believe, swallow, go for: Did you buy his story about having his car stolen? 3 bribe, suborn, pay off, buy off, corrupt: That customs man must have been bought or he wouldn't have let the package through. --n. 4 purchase, acquisition: We made a bad buy at the last auction. 5 Also, good buy. bargain, Colloq US and Canadian steal: If you paid only ø2,000, that was a real buy.
CAB|0|n. taxi, taxi-cub, Obsolete (horse-drawn) hackney, hansom (cab); Old-fashioned US hack: A cab picked me up and dropped me at the hotel.
CAF|0|n. coffee-house, coffee bar, coffee-shop, bistro, snack bar, brasserie; tearoom, lunch-room, restaurant, eating-house, canteen; cafeteria, US diner, Colloq eatery; Slang Brit caff, US greasy spoon: We stopped at a caf÷ for refreshment.
CAP|0|n. 1 hat, head covering: The plumber took off his cap and scratched his head. 2 lid, top, cover: Screw the cap on tight. 3 cap in hand. humbly, meekly, servilely, submissively, subserviently, docilely, respectfully: He went cap in hand to ask for a pay rise. --v. 4 surpass, outdo, outstrip, better, beat, exceed, top, excel: Betty capped her earlier triumphs by winning the semifinals. 5 cover, protect: As it's begun to rain, you'd best cap the camera lens.
CAR|0|n. 1 (motor) vehicle, motor car, automobile, passenger car, Old-fashioned or slang motor; Chiefly US auto; Colloq jalopy, heap, pile, crate, machine, buggy, transport; Slang wheels: Borrow a car and drive down for the weekend. 2 (railway) carriage: The body was found in a sleeping car of the Orient Express.
COG|0|n. 1 tooth, gear-tooth, sprocket, ratchet: Stripping the gears means breaking the cogs off them. 2 underling, pawn, subordinate, nonentity, zero, cipher or cypher, nothing, nobody, small fry: He's only a small cog in the organization - we're after the big wheel himself.
COT|0|n. bed, crib; cradle, bunk: The baby is asleep in his cot.
COY|0|adj. shy, modest, diffident, demure, timid, bashful, self-conscious, sheepish, timorous, unassuming, unpretentious; reserved, self-effacing, retiring, evasive, reluctant, recalcitrant: She was so coy she would disappear whenever we had guests.
CRY|0|v. 1 weep, sob, wail, keen, bawl, shed tears: Paul cried when they took his mother away. 2 whimper, snivel, pule, mewl, whine, moan, groan, fret, Colloq turn on the waterworks, Brit grizzle: Don't cry over spilt milk. 3 cry out for. demand, need, call for, beg for, plead for: Her hair is so untidy it cries out for trimming. Wanton murder cries out for vengeance. --n. 4 scream, shriek, wail, howl, yowl: I heard the mournful cries of those being tortured. 5 shout, whoop, yell, howl: Uttering blood-curdling cries, the rebels attacked. 6 call, sound, note: The noise was the cry of the lesser grebe to its mate. 7 war cry, battle-cry, slogan, watchword: 'Down with the king!' was the cry used to rally the rabble. 8 a far cry. a long way, quite a distance, remote, distant, not, not quite, very different (from): This report is a far cry from what I had expected.
CUE|0|n. 1 prompt, hint, reminder, signal, sign: Give her the cue to start singing. --v. 2 signal, prompt, remind: She was cueing me to begin, but I'd lost my voice.
CUT|0|v. 1 gash, slash, slit; open: I cut my finger on the glass. 2 slice, cut off, carve: Please cut me a thick piece of steak. 3 Often, cut up. hurt, wound, pain, upset, grieve, distress, aggrieve, slight, insult, offend, affront: I was really all cut up by her nasty remarks. 4 trim, snip, lop, clip, crop, shorten, shear, chop off; mow; dock: The barber has cut too much off the sides. 5 abbreviate, shorten, crop, condense, abridge, edit, cut back, reduce, cut down; epitomize, abstract, digest, summarize, curtail: Cut this script to make it fit into the allotted time. 6 dilute, thin, water (down), weaken; degrade, adulterate: They cut the rum with water to make grog. 7 avoid, fail to attend, eschew: Cynthia cut classes three days this week. 8 lower, reduce, lessen, cut back (on), cut down (on), slash, diminish, decrease, retrench (on), curtail: We shall have to cut expenses if the company is to survive. 9 conclude, settle, agree: Once the deal was cut, there was no going back on it. 10 prepare, draw, write, sign: We'll have accounting cut your cheque and send it at once. 11 cut back. a See 5, above. b See 8, above. 12 Often, cut dead. snub, slight, spurn, shun, ignore, give the cold shoulder (to): Cornelia had the gall to cut Jason dead at his own party. 13 cut down. a fell, chop or hew down: Don't cut down that tree! b kill, cut off, murder, assassinate: He was cut down in his prime. 14 cut in. interrupt, intrude, interfere, Colloq butt in: Please don't cut in on our conversation. 15 cut off. a cleave, sever, chop or lop or hack off: Cut the branch off near the trunk. b intercept, interrupt, discontinue, end, stop, terminate, break off: There was a click and our phone conversation was cut off. c separate, sever, split, estrange: He's been cut off from the family for years. d disinherit, disown, reject: She was cut off with a shilling. 16 cut out. a delete, remove, excise, strike or cross out, edit out, omit, cut, kill, Technical dele: The publishers made me cut out part...
DAB|0|v. 1 daub, pat, tap, tamp, touch: Dab a little more paint into the crevices. --n. 2 touch, drop, trace, bit, mite, hint, suggestion, pinch, dash, spot, tinge, Colloq dollop, smidgen or smidgin: Add just a dab of mustard to the sauce. 3 daub, poke, pat, tap, touch: Wipe it away with a dab of a damp cloth.
DAY|0|n. 1 daytime, daylight, broad daylight, light of day: Sunrise quickly turned night into day. 2 time, hour, age, period, era, epoch, date, prime, heyday; lifetime: Her day will come. In his day, there was no telephone.
DIE|0|v. 1 lose one's life, lay down one's life, perish, expire, decease, suffer death, Euphemistic depart, give up the ghost, be no more, (go to) meet one's Maker, breathe one's last, go to the happy hunting-grounds, go to one's reward, go to one's final or last resting-place, go west, pay the debt of nature, pay one's debt to nature, pass through the pearly gates, pass away or on, join the majority, go the way of all flesh; Slang pop off, bite the dust, kick the bucket, croak, Brit snuff it, go for a burton, pop one's clogs, US turn up one's toes, cash in one's chips or checks: He died of tuberculosis, a rare affliction these days. 2 Often, die down or out or away. dwindle, lessen, diminish, decrease, ebb, decline, wane, subside, wither (away), wilt, melt (away), dissolve, peter out, fail, weaken, deteriorate, disintegrate, degenerate, fade (away), droop, moulder, sink, vanish, disappear: We lost the race because the breeze died down. After the third try, her enthusiasm died. The sound of the flute died away among its echoes. 3 expire, end, stop, cease: Your secret will die with me. 4 Usually, die off or out. become extinct, perish: By about 200 million years ago, all the dinosaurs had died out. 5 long, pine, yearn, crave, hanker, want, desire, hunger, ache: He said he was dying to meet a real movie star.
DIG|0|v. 1 excavate, burrow, gouge, scoop, hollow out; tunnel: He dug a hole in which to set the post. 2 nudge, thrust, stab, jab, plunge, force, prod, poke: I dug my spurs into my horse and rode off. He kept digging me in the ribs with his finger. 3 appreciate, enjoy, like, understand: They really dig the jazz of the big-band era. 4 notice, note, look at, regard: Hey, man, dig that crazy gear! 5 dig into. probe (into), delve into, go deeply into, explore, look into, research, study: We dug into many books of forgotten lore to find the words of the magic spell. 6 dig out or up. unearth, disinter, exhume, bring up, find, obtain, extract, ferret out, winkle out, discover, bring to light, expose, dredge up, extricate, come up with, Australian fossick: I dug out an old book on witchcraft. She has dug up some interesting information about your friend Glover. --n. 7 thrust, poke, jab, stab, nudge: She playfully gave him a dig in the ribs. 8 insult, insinuation, gibe, slur; taunt, jeer; Colloq slap (in the face), wisecrack, crack, US low blow: Referring to him as a Dartmoor graduate was a nasty dig.
DIM|0|adj. 1 obscure, obscured, vague, faint, weak, weakened, pale, imperceptible, fuzzy, indistinct, ill-defined, indiscernible, undefined, indistinguishable, foggy, clouded, cloudy, nebulous, blurred, blurry, unclear, dull, hazy, misty, dark, shadowy, murky, tenebrous, gloomy, sombre, dusky, crepuscular: Her beauty made The bright world dim. We could barely see in the dim light of the cave. 2 stupid, obtuse, doltish, dull, dull-witted, foolish, slow-witted, dim-witted, dense, Colloq thick, dumb: Anyone who can't understand that is really quite dim. --v. 3 obscure, dull, becloud: His natural feelings of compassion had been dimmed by neglect. 4 darken, bedim, shroud, shade: Twilight dims the sky above. The stage-lights dimmed and the curtain fell.
DIN|0|n. 1 noise, clamour, uproar, shouting, screaming, yelling, babel, clangour, clatter, commotion, racket, row, hullabaloo, hubbub, hurly-burly, rumpus, hollering, blare, blaring, bray, braying, bellow, bellowing, roar, blast, roaring, pandemonium, tumult: We couldn't hear the speech above the din of the crowd. --v. 2 instil, drum, hammer: The names and dates of the British monarchs were dinned into me in childhood.
DIP|0|v. 1 immerse, plunge, duck, dunk, douse, bathe, submerge: He dipped each dish into the soapy water. 2 decline, go down, fall, descend, sag, sink, subside, slump: The road dips after the next curve. The price of shares has dipped again. 3 dip in or into. dabble in, play at; skim, scan: I haven't had time to read it, but I dipped into it here and there. --n. 4 swim, plunge; immersion; Brit bathe: We are going for a dip in the pool before dinner. 5 lowering, sinking, depression, drop, slump, decline: This dip in the price of oil means nothing.
DOT|0|n. 1 spot, speck, point, jot, mark, iota, fleck, dab; decimal point, Brit full stop, US period: Use three dots to denote text omissions. 2 on the dot. exactly, precisely, punctually, to the minute or second, on time, Colloq on the button: She arrived at noon on the dot. --v. 3 spot, fleck, speckle, stipple, bespeckle: The wallpaper is dotted with tiny squares of colour.
DRY|0|adj. 1 dehydrated, desiccated, arid, sear, parched, waterless, moistureless; barren, bare, fruitless: With no rain for a month, the dry earth yielded no crops. 2 dreary, boring, tedious, tiresome, wearisome, wearying, tiring, dull, uninteresting, monotonous, prosaic, commonplace, stale, uninspired; plain, unadorned, unembellished: The minister's speech was as dry as could be, a litany of dry statistics. 3 witty, droll, wry, cynical, biting, sarcastic, cutting, keen, sly, ironic: Oscar Wilde was known for his dry witticisms. --v. 4 dehydrate, desiccate, parch: As the rainfall subsided, the land dried and changed into a desert. 5 dry up or out, wither, shrivel, shrink, wilt: The plants dried because they weren't watered.
DUD|0|n. 1 failure, Colloq flop, lead balloon, lemon, washout, Colloq US and Canadian dog, clinker: Her second novel certainly proved a dud - it sold only ten copies. --adj. 2 worthless, valueless, broken, unusable, useless, inoperative, non-functioning, inoperative, malfunctioning, Colloq kaput, bust(ed), Brit duff: They deliberately supplied us with dud ammunition.
DUE|0|adj. 1 payable, owed, owing, unpaid, outstanding, in arrears: The rent is due tomorrow. 2 fitting, right, rightful, correct, proper, appropriate, apropos, apposite, suitable, apt, meet; deserved, (well-)earned, merited, just, justified: Was she treated with due respect? 3 necessary, needed, adequate, sufficient, enough, satisfactory; ample, plenty of: I do not think my case was given due consideration. 4 expected, scheduled, anticipated: He was due on the two o'clock plane. --adv. 5 directly, exactly, precisely, straight: Go due east to the river, then turn north.
DUN|0|v. press, importune, solicit, plague, nag, pester, Slang US bug: The gas company has been dunning me to pay the bill.
EAR|0|n. 1 attention, heed, notice, regard, consideration: See if you can get his ear for a moment between meetings. 2 sensitivity, appreciation, taste, discrimination: She has an excellent ear for the right expression.
EAT|0|v. dine, lunch, breakfast, sup, break bread, snack, have a bite; consume, devour, take (in) nourishment, Colloq put or pack away, Slang nosh, put or tie on the nosebag or US and Canadian feed-bag: I'm not hungry, thank you: I've already eaten.
EBB|0|v. 1 recede, flow back, subside, go out, go down; fall back or away, retreat, retrocede, retire: The tide ebbed, leaving the boat stranded. 2 decline, flag, decay, wane, diminish, decrease, drop, slacken, fade (away), drain (away), dwindle, peter out, waste (away), deteriorate: His enthusiasm for exercise is beginning to ebb. --n. 3 low tide, low water, ebb tide, low point: The rocks appear when the sea is at its ebb. 4 decline, decay, decrease, diminution, wane, drop, slackening (off), dwindling, lessening, deterioration, degeneration: She was no longer willing to contend with the ebb and flow of his temper.
END|0|n. 1 extremity, extreme, extent, bound, boundary, tip, limit, terminus: That fence marks the southern end of the property. At the end of the garden was a large shed. 2 close, termination, conclusion, cessation, expiration, finish, completion, finale, ending, wind-up; denouement or d÷nouement: At the end of the film, the lights came on. 3 aim, purpose, intention, intent, objective, object,goal, point, reason, raison d'étre, destination, motive, motivation, aspiration: To what end does she persist so vehemently? 4 consequence, result, outcome, effect, upshot: The end of the affair was that he had to leave town. 5 destruction, death, ruin, extermination, annihilation, death, termination, conclusion: That would spell the end to all life on earth. 6 at a loose end or US and Canadian at loose ends. unsettled, unoccupied, unemployed, uncommitted, undecided, indecisive, ambivalent, vacillating, purposeless, aimless, adrift, drifting, betwixt and between, neither here nor there: My wife has gone off to visit her mother and I'm at a loose end. 7 on end. a upright, erect, standing: He can balance a ruler on end. b continuously, uninterruptedly, unceasingly, incessantly, consecutively: It rained for days on end. 8 the end. a the worst, the last straw, the final blow, Colloq the limit, too much: Brian's winning first prize is the absolute end. b the best, the greatest: That disc by The What is the living end. --v. 9 terminate, conclude, bring to an end, stop, halt, cease, wind up or down, settle, put an end to, discontinue, break off, cut off, close, finish, culminate, end up, Brit put paid to; die (out), expire, climax, peter out, vanish: We have ended our relationship. The book ends with her returning to him. The year ends on December 31st. 10 kill, put to death, annihilate, exterminate, terminate, extinguish; destroy, ruin: He ended his life last night with a bullet. 11 surpass, outdo, outclass, outshine, outstrip, supersede: It is a disaster film to end all disaster films.
ERA|0|n. age, period, time(s), day(s), epoch, stage; generation, cycle, date: They lived in an era of peace.
ERR|0|v. 1 be wrong, be in error, be mistaken, be inaccurate, be incorrect, be in the wrong, go wrong, go astray, make a mistake, miscalculate, (make a) blunder, bungle, botch, fumble, muff, make a mess of, make a faux pas, mess up , US bobble; Colloq goof (up), slip (up), drop a clanger, foul up, Brit drop a brick, blot one's copybook, Slang screw up, Brit boob, Taboo slang fuck up: The referee erred in ruling that the ball was out. 2 misbehave, sin, transgress, trespass, lapse, fall, do wrong: She has erred many times in her long life.
EVE|0|n. 1 evening or day or night before, time or period before; vigil: It was Christmas Eve, and we went out carolling. 2 verge, threshold, brink: We met on the eve of my departure for Hungary.
EYE|0|n. 1 eyeball, orb, Colloq optic: The eye of the eagle is nearly as large as that of an elephant. 2 vision, (eye)sight, visual acuity, perception: Her eyes are weakened by so much reading. 3 discernment, perception, taste, judgement, discrimination, percipience, perspicacity, appreciation, sensitivity; knowledge, recognition, comprehension: Shirley has a good eye for Chinese antiques. Walmsley has the eye of an artist. 4 liking, affection, fondness, partiality, appreciation; lustfulness: Old Bisley still has an eye for the girls. 5 ogle, leer, look, wink, glad eye, sidelong glance: The barmaid gave me the eye as soon as I walked in. 6 view, respect, regard, aim, intention, purpose, design, plan, idea, notion: He lent me the money with an eye to asking a favour in return. 7 attention, regard, look, scrutiny, view, examination, observation; supervision: All our comings and goings were under the watchful eye of Scotland Yard. 8 guard, lookout, watch, vigil: The class monitor is expected to keep an eye on the younger children. --v. 9 examine, scrutinize, look at, regard: My future mother-in-law eyed me up and down. 10 behold, gaze or look or peer at or upon, contemplate, study, regard, view, inspect; watch, observe: The doctor eyed the wound with concern.
FAD|0|n. craze, mania, rage, fashion, trend, fancy, vogue: Do you remember the hula-hoop fad?
FAG|0|v. 1 Often, fag out. exhaust, weary, tire (out), fatigue, wear out, jade, Colloq Brit knacker, US poop: I am completely fagged out from studying all night. --n. 2 Brit bore, nuisance, drag, chore, pain: It's a bit of a fag having to fetch water from the garden. 3 servant, menial, flunkey, drudge, lackey, underling: The seniors used to have fags to clean their shoes. 4 See homosexual, 1, below. 5 cigarette, smoke, Colloq butt, cig(gy), weed, coffin-nail, cancer stick, Old-fashioned gasper: Got a fag?
FAN|0|n. admirer, enthusiast, adherent, devotee, aficionado, follower, supporter, lover, zealot, Colloq buff, fiend, hound, bug, addict, nut, US booster, Slang junkie, freak, groupie: Avid fans of Ascot United, we go to all the matches.
FAR|0|adv. 1 afar, far-away or -off, a good or great or long way or distance off or away: We caught sight of a sail far to the south. 2 (very) much, considerably, decidedly, incomparably: She is a far better swimmer than George. 3 by far. (very) much, considerably, decidedly, incomparably, (im)measurably, by a long shot, far and away, clearly, plainly, obviously, doubtless(ly), indubitably, undoubtedly, definitely, beyond (the shadow of a) doubt, without a doubt, Colloq Brit by a long chalk: She's a better swimmer than George by far. He is by far the wealthiest person I know. 4 far and wide. everywhere, near and far or far and near, extensively, widely, high and low; here, there, and everywhere: We searched far and wide to find these specimens. 5 far gone. a beyond or past help, advanced, deteriorated, worn out, dilapidated, near the end: That shirt is too far gone to send to the laundry. My house is so far gone it's beyond repair. b drunk, besotted, Slang loaded, pissed, paralytic, paralysed: He's too far gone to walk. 6 go far. a progress, advance, succeed, go places, get ahead, rise (in the world), make a name for oneself, become successful, set the world on fire, Brit set the Thames on fire, US cut a swath: He is a very bright youngster and I'm sure he will go far in whatever profession he chooses. b help, aid, contribute, play a part: The new law will go far towards inhibiting child abuse. 7 go too far. go overboard or over the top, not know when to stop, go to extremes; exceed, overdo, overstep, transcend, go beyond: Ambition is one thing, but he went too far when he tried to get his boss's job. 8 so far. a thus far, (up) to or till or until now or the present or this point, to date, to this point in time: So far, we have been able to keep up with the mortgage payments. b to a certain extent or limit or point: She said she would go just so far and no further. --adj. 9 (more) remote or distant, far-away, far-off; extreme, further, farther, farthest: She claimed the a...
FAT|0|adj. 1 obese, stout, overweight, heavy, plump, rotund, corpulent, portly, well-fed, chubby, podgy or chiefly US pudgy, roly-poly, tubby, bulky, fleshy, paunchy, pot-bellied, overfed, flabby, elephantine, Colloq broad in the beam, beamy, beefy, Slang US five-by-five: A fat man squeezed in beside me. 2 oily, oleaginous, unctuous, greasy, fatty, pinguid, sebaceous, adipose: His complexion is bad because he eats too much fat food. 3 rich, wealthy, prosperous, affluent, well-to-do, well off, Colloq well-heeled, loaded: They grew fat on their profits from the black market. 4 profitable, lucrative, fruitful, remunerative, Slang cushy: He has a fat job as a purchasing agent for the government. --n. 5 obesity, corpulence, stoutness, overweight, heaviness, plumpness, rotundity, portliness, chubbiness, podginess or chiefly US pudginess, tubbiness, fleshiness, paunchiness, flabbiness: He leans a little towards fat because of lack of exercise. 6 riches, wealth, prosperity, fertility, yield, abundance, plenty, plenteousness: He's living off the fat of the land.
FEE|0|n. 1 charge, price, cost, fare, bill, tariff, toll, Colloq damage(s): The membership fee is ø25. 2 pay, payment, emolument, compensation, recompense, honorarium, remuneration, rate, wage(s), stipend, salary: What is your fee per hour for proofreading?
FEW|0|adj. 1 hardly or scarcely any, not many, insufficient; infrequent, occasional: Few people came to my party. He is a man of few words. --n. 2 handful, some, scattering: I invited a lot of people, but only a few came. --pron. 3 (only) one or two, not many: Many apply but few are chosen.
FIB|0|n. 1 falsehood, (little) white lie, untruth, prevarication, fabrication, invention, misrepresentation, story, (fairy) tale, fiction; lie; Colloq tall story, US tall tale, cock-and-bull story, whopper: I told a little fib when I said my grandmother was ill. --v. 2 prevaricate, misrepresent, fudge, falsify, misspeak, palter; lie; Colloq waffle: They admitted they had fibbed about who had thrown the egg.
FIT|0|adj. 1 fitting, appropriate, fitted, suitable, suited, adapted, apt, meet, apropos, applicable; befitting, becoming, convenient, proper, right, correct, fitting: Those books are not fit for children. It's not a fit night out for man or beast. 2 prepared, ready, able, capable, qualified, worthy, right, adequate: The question is, is such a man fit to lead men into battle? 3 healthy, well, hale, hearty, stalwart, vigorous, strong, sturdy, robust, strapping, able-bodied, in good shape or trim or condition, in fine fettle: Is she fit enough to run in the marathon? 4 ready, angry, troubled, upset, inclined, disposed, ready or likely or about to, exhausted enough: I worked till I was fit to drop. Mr Barrett was coughing fit to burst. --v. 5 befit, suit, become, be suited to, be suitable or appropriate for, answer, satisfy: This computer program does not fit my needs. 6 join, conform, go (together), match, correspond, dovetail, tally: I cannot make the parts fit. 7 adjust, modify, change, adapt, alter, accommodate, shape, fashion: You will just have to fit your schedule to conform to ours. 8 equip, supply, furnish, provide, outfit, fit out or up, install or instal, rig out, gear up: I am having my boat fitted with radar.
FIX|0|v. 1 affix, pin, fasten, make fast, attach, secure, stick, connect, link, tie, couple, clasp, clamp, rivet, cement, weld, fuse: Fix this sign to the door. 2 establish, set, settle, agree to, determine, organize, stabilize, firm up, solidify, decide, conclude, arrive at, define, specify, resolve, arrange, install or instal, institute: The new limits must be fixed by tomorrow. 3 repair, mend, fix up, remedy, rectify, correct, emend, adjust, patch (up), regulate, put or set to rights, doctor, straighten out: My watch is at the jeweller's being fixed. 4 hold, fasten, focus, direct, level, rivet, concentrate, freeze; fixate: He fixed his attention on the ice-cream. 5 hold, rivet, spellbind, mesmerize, hypnotize, fascinate, freeze, immobilize: She fixed him with a baleful stare. 6 concentrate, focus: Fix your thoughts on how we're going to get out of here. 7 harden, congeal, thicken, set, consolidate, solidify, rigidify, become rigid, stiffen, freeze: Mould the clay before it becomes fixed. 8 establish, set, settle, organize, install or instal, situate, locate, position, place: Her family is comfortably fixed. 9 impose, assign, allocate, attribute, ascribe, specify, pin, attach, fasten, establish: They tried to fix the responsibility for the accident. 10 settle, set, stabilize, freeze, solidify: The introduction and spread of printing fixed many spellings. 11 bribe, suborn, buy (off), corrupt, influence, manipulate, Colloq grease (someone's) palm: He attempted to fix a judge. 12 arrange, prearrange, predetermine, set up, contrive, Colloq fiddle, pull strings, rig: We knew the winner as they had fixed the race. 13 desexualize, desex, alter, cut; castrate, emasculate, see to, eunuchize, geld, caponize; spay, oophorectomize, ovariectomize: Animals that have been fixed are usually more tractable. 14 retaliate against, wreak vengeance on, hit or strike or get back at, get even with, even the score with, make reprisal against, avenge oneself against, take revenge or retribution...
FLY|0|v. 1 take wing, take flight, take to the air, wing, soar, sail, hover; flutter, flit, flap: A stork flew overhead. Daedalus taught Icarus to fly. 2 Also, fly away or off. take flight, depart, leave, flee, decamp, bolt, run away or off, escape, make (good) one's escape, take to one's heels, show a clean pair of heels, rush or nip off or out or away, (make a) run (for it), go or get away or off, abscond, make a getaway, cut and run, beat a (hasty) retreat, take off, scoot, Colloq light out, beat it, clear out or off, skedaddle, scram, US cut out, hightail (it), take it on the lam, take a (run-out) powder, lam out, take to the hills, take to the woods; Slang Brit scarper, bugger off, US vamoose, blow: She flew off before I could get her telephone number. 3 hasten, hurry, rush, run, race, dash, sprint, tear, scamper, scoot, Colloq make tracks: I must fly if I'm to catch the train. 4 pass (by), elapse, go (by), expire, run its course, slip or slide by or away: Time flies quickly when you're having fun. 5 aviate, pilot; jet: Parker flies his own plane. I flew down to Paris with him. 6 fly in the face of. flout, defy, go against, contemn, scorn, scoff at, oppose, go or run counter to, counter, counteract, countervail, countermine, contradict, contravene, thumb one's nose at, Colloq Brit cock a snook at: His actions fly in the face of conventional behaviour. 7 fly off the handle. fly into a rage or fury or temper or passion, lose one's temper, have a fit or tantrum, be fit to be tied, go berserk, go crazy or mad, explode, Colloq lose or blow one's cool, blow one's top, hit or go through the roof, US hit the ceiling, blow one's stack, get worked up (over); Slang blow a fuse or a gasket, flip (one's lid), have a haemorrhage, Brit flip one's top: Rudolf flies off the handle at the slightest provocation. 8 let fly. a throw, toss, cast, hurl, fling, heave, pitch, lob, sling, chuck, shoot, fire (off), let rip, discharge, launch, propel, let go or off: They let fly a volley of arr...
FOG|0|n. 1 mist, haze, smog, vapour, cloud, Colloq pea-souper: Our flight was grounded because of fog. 2 trance, daze, stupor, brown study, confused state; coma: He's in a fog and didn't hear a word you said. --v. 3 dim, obscure, cloud, bedim, becloud, blind, stifle: The purpose of all that verbiage is merely to fog the issue. 4 Usually, befog. bewilder, mystify, perplex, confuse, muddle, puzzle, nonplus: I was completely befogged by the technical language he used. 5 Also, fog up or over. mist over or up, cloud up or over, shroud: My bathroom mirror fogs when I take a hot shower.
FOR|0|prep. 1 representing, championing; in favour of, Brit on or US and Canadian also in behalf of, on the side of, in support of, in the service of, as a service to, for the benefit of, pro: Are you for or against the candidate? She did it for herself. 2 in search or quest of, seeking, looking for or after, after, with a view or an eye to: We're just here for the beer. 3 instead of, in place of, representing, as a replacement for, Brit on or US and Canadian in behalf of; in return or exchange for, in compensation or recompense or payment or repayment for, in requital for: I am acting for my father. This cheque is for the toaster. Will you accept nothing for your pains? 4 for the treatment of, as a remedy for, against; for the purpose or object of: This medication is for skin infections only. It's for your own good. 5 for the sake of, Brit on or US and Canadian also in behalf of, in the interest of: Would you really do that for me? 6 in the direction of, to, towards, into: Head for the hills! 7 to save, in the interest or benefit of, for the sake or benefit of, conducive to; because of, on account of, by reason of: Every summer, they went to Carlsbad for their health. She hated him for what he represented. 8 to go to, destined for: I am leaving for Tierra del Fuego tomorrow. 9 suitable or suited for, fit or fitted or fitting for, appropriate for, proper for: I am not sure that this colour is for you. Is it right for me to speak out now? 10 for the duration of; over (the extent of), during, in the course of, throughout, through: She stayed for a week. 11 despite, in spite of, notwithstanding, allowing for: For all his complaining, he seemed satisfied. 12 as for. regarding, in regard to, as regards, respecting, concerning, as far as (something or someone) is concerned: As for Betty, let her do as she likes. --conj. 13 because, since, as, inasmuch as, seeing that, owing or due to the fact that: I was unable to see him, for he was out of the office.
FTE|0|n. 1 festival, entertainment, reception, levee, gala, rejoicing, celebration, party, festivities, get-together, social, amusement, revel, fair, ball, frolic, spree, jamboree, carnival, event, occasion, Colloq blow-out, shindig, bash, do, bust, Slang US and Canadian wingding, blast: You are invited to our annual féte on New Year's Eve. --v. 2 entertain, feast, roll or bring out the red carpet for, wine and dine, celebrate, honour, lionize, fuss over, kill the fatted calf for: Fiona's book was a great success and she was féted all over Europe.
FUN|0|n. 1 merriment, merrymaking, gaiety, glee, jollity, mirth, cheer, high spirits, delight, frolic, festivity, high jinks; amusement, diversion, sport, enjoyment, recreation, entertainment, pastime, joy, pleasure, Colloq (making) whoopee: Your party was great fun. We always have fun when we're together. Want to have some fun? 2 tomfoolery, horseplay, joking, playfulness, clowning, pranks, sport, jesting, jocularity, nonsense, fooling around or about, Colloq skylarking: This is no time for fun - we have to catch a train. 3 in or for fun. jokingly, teasingly, in jest, facetiously, with tongue in cheek, playfully, as a lark, for a joke or gag; not seriously: In fun, we told him that he had missed the last ferry. 4 Like fun! Under no circumstances!, No way!, Colloq Like hell!, US No way, Jose!: Like fun will I go swimming in the nude! 5 make fun of. poke fun at, tease, deride, (hold up to) ridicule, scoff at, lampoon, parody, satirize, make sport or game of, taunt, gibe, rag, Colloq kid, rib, Brit send up: Kevin is always making fun of people by imitating them.
GAB|0|v. 1 jabber, gabble, chatter, gibber, blather or blether, prate, prattle, blab, gossip, Colloq Brit natter, witter, Slang jaw, yack, US run off at the mouth: Stop gabbing and get on with your work! --n. 2 chatter, chit-chat, prattle, jibber-jabber, jabber, gossip, blarney, blather or blether, tittle-tattle; cackle, moonshine, nonsense, drivel, twaddle, rubbish, gobbledegook or gobbledygook, mumbo-jumbo, poppycock, bunk or bunkum, balderdash, stuff and nonsense, hogwash, eyewash, Colloq piffle, flummery, rot, bull, codswallop, Slang bullshit, horseshit, shit, crap, garbage, Chiefly Brit tosh, balls: He had nothing important to say - just a lot of gab.
GAD|0|v. Usually, gad about or around. gallivant, run around, flit about, traipse: He's never home, always gadding about, from one party to another.
GAG|0|v. 1 silence, stifle, still, muffle, stop (up), muzzle, quiet, curb, suppress, repress, restrain, throttle, strangle, check, inhibit, discourage: The department gagged him, forbidding any press interviews. 2 retch, choke, heave; gasp for air, struggle for breath; US keck: That drink made me gag. --n. 3 restraint, curb, muzzle, check: MI5 tried to put a gag on the revelations of the former spy.
GAP|0|n. 1 opening, space, aperture, distance, hole, void, gulf, cavity, break, breach, crevice, chink, crack, split, division, cleft, rift, rip, tear, rent; interruption, interval, lacuna, hiatus, discontinuity, disruption; lull, pause, rest, recess, halt, stop, suspension, delay, wait, intermission, respite: The gap between the walls is just big enough for a child. I can see through a gap in the curtain. There is a gap in his payment record. 2 difference, divergence, disparity, disagreement, inconsistency, discrepancy; division, distinction: A gap exists between your ideas of justice and mine.
GAY|0|adj. 1 See homosexual, 1, below. 2 happy, blithe, jovial, light-hearted, carefree, debonair, cheerful, gleeful, bright, joyful, joyous, jubilant, high-spirited, merry, lively, vivacious, buoyant, effervescent, bubbly, bubbling, sparkling, US chipper: In those days our hearts were young and gay. 3 garish, gaudy, flashy, bright, brilliant, vivid, many-coloured: The gay decorations added to the atmosphere to the party. --n. 4 See homosexual, 2, below.
GEM|0|n. 1 gemstone, jewel, stone, precious or semiprecious stone: The crown was set with rubies and other precious gems. 2 ideal, quintessence, perfect example; pearl (of great price), marvel, flower, ÷lite, cream, crëme de la crëme, pick, nonpareil, treasure, prize, masterpiece, chef-d'oeuvre: This is a perfect gem of a painting. The vale of Grasmere is a gem in the diadem of the Lake District.
GET|0|v. 1 obtain, secure, acquire, come by or into (the) possession of, procure, pick up; collect; buy, purchase, book, retain, hire, engage, rent, lease; accede to, inherit, fall heir to, succeed to: Where did you get these beautiful prints? You had better get yourself a good lawyer. They got the furniture from his mother's estate. 2 receive; be given, come by: He got a bicycle from his grandma. I got a job at the carwash. 3 earn, receive, realize, make, take, gross, clear, net, pocket, be paid; win, Colloq take home, pull down: He gets a lot of money for just standing there and answering questions. 4 fetch, go (to or and) get, go for or after, pick up; bring (back), retrieve: Please get me a cup of tea. 5 catch, contract, have, suffer from, come down with, fall ill or sick with, be afflicted with, become infected with, acquire: You'll get pneumonia if you go out without your coat. 6 become, fall: We got ill from eating too much chocolate. 7 become, turn, grow: It got very cold last night. He got rich almost overnight. 8 capture, seize, arrest, take, apprehend, grab, pick up, lay hold of, bag, Colloq collar, nab, pinch: Are the police sure that they got the right person? 9 manage, arrange, come, succeed; contrive, fix it, manoeuvre, manipulate, Colloq wangle: How did you get to be chairman? 10 reach, arrive (at), come, go, travel, journey: She got home by taxi. 11 catch, take, enter, make, come or go by, travel or journey by: He got the midnight train. 12 reach, get in touch with, communicate with, get onto or through to, Colloq contact: We finally got him just before he left for the day. 13 receive, pick up, tune in to or on, listen to or watch: I cannot get that programme. 14 persuade, prevail upon, coax, induce, influence, cajole, wheedle, talk (someone) into, sway, bring (someone) round, make, cause: How did you ever get them to let you go? 15 put, place, set, fit, manoeuvre, manipulate, wiggle, wriggle: I can't get this knob back on. 16 affect, stir, move, touch, a...
GOB|0|n. chunk, piece, blob, lump, gobbet, morsel, fragment, bite: She took a gob of peanut butter and spread it on the bread.
GOD|0|n. deity, demigod, demiurge, divinity, spirit, immortal, genius, power, tutelary, numen: Throughout man's sojourn on earth he has worshipped many gods.
GUT|0|n. 1 Often, guts. bowels, intestines, entrails, viscera, stomach, offal, vitals, vital parts, gurry, Brit (of a deer) gralloch, Colloq insides, innards or inwards: As soon as the game is killed, the guts must be removed. 2 stomach, abdomen, belly; beer-belly, bay window, corporation: His enormous gut hung over his belt. 3 guts. a backbone, bravery, boldness, audacity, pluck, courage, determination, daring, spirit, grit, mettle, gumption, nerve, intestinal fortitude, Colloq spunk, gutsiness, Slang Brit bottle, Taboo balls: He hasn't the guts to tell the boss what he thinks of him. b integrity, will-power, stamina, endurance, forcefulness, dynamism: It takes real guts to stand up for your rights. --v. 4 disembowel, eviscerate, draw, dress, clean: It will take hours to gut all these fish. 5 ransack, pillage, plunder, sack, despoil, strip, ravage, loot, rifle, Rare depredate; clean out, devastate, empty: The building was completely gutted by the fire. --adj. 6 basic, heartfelt, instinctive, instinctual, intuitive, visceral, deep-seated, emotional: My gut reaction is to refuse the offer.
GUY|0|n. 1 man, lad, youth, boy, fellow, person, Colloq chap, geezer, Brit bloke, Slang gink, cat, customer, US dude, Old-fashioned gazabo or gazebo: Clarence is a pretty nice guy. --v. 2 mock, ridicule, make fun of, caricature, satirize, poke fun at, lampoon, Colloq rib, take off, Brit send up: We put on a show at school in which we guyed the teachers.
HAG|0|n. crone, fury, witch, ogress, gorgon, harpy, fishwife, harridan, shrew, virago, termagant, vixen, hell-cat, maenad or menad, Xanthippe, Archaic beldam; dog, beast, monster; Colloq battleaxe, Slang bitch, bag, US two-bagger: Perseus met the Graeae, three old hags with one eye that they passed among them.
HIP|0|adj. informed, aware, knowledgeable, knowing, perceptive, alert, in or up on, onto, Colloq wise (to), with it, cool, Old-fashioned hep: He's not hip to what they're saying about him and Carrie.
HIT|0|v. 1 strike, cuff, smack, knock, whack, bash, bang, thump, thwack, punch, buffet, slap, swat, bludgeon, club, smite; spank, thrash, beat, pummel, batter, flog, scourge, birch, cane, lash, belabour, flagellate, whip, horsewhip, cudgel, Archaic fustigate; Colloq belt, wallop, clobber, clout, sock, clip, crown, bop, conk, paste, lambaste, zap: She hit him on the jaw and he went down. 2 strike, bat, swat, knock, drive, propel: He hit the ball over the heads of the fielders. 3 strike, collide or impact with, run or smash or crash into, bump or bang into: The car went off the road and hit a tree. 4 affect, touch, stir, move, wound, hurt, strike or hit home, make or leave an impression or a mark on, (make an) impact (on): The new taxes hit the wealthy more than the poor. 5 dawn on, enter one's mind, occur to, strike: It finally hit Graham that he had been insulted. 6 reach, attain, arrive at, gain, achieve: Those who have hit eighty know the meaning of old age. She hit the jackpot this week. 7 experience, encounter, meet (with): It was at that point that we hit a snag in the negotiations. 8 Also, hit up. importune, beseech, petition, beg, implore, entreat, ask for: As usual, Guthrie hit me for a loan as soon as we met. 9 hit on or upon. a come or happen or chance or light on or upon, discover, find, uncover, unearth, stumble or blunder on or upon, arrive at: After years of experimentation, the Curies hit upon pitchblende as a source of radium. b devise, think of or up, invent, dream up, come up with, work out, see, perceive, detect, discern, find: I have hit upon a way to counteract the force of gravity. --n. 10 impact, collision; blow, punch, knock, strike, swat, shot, smack, bump, bang, Colloq whack, thwack, conk, bop, sock: The weakness of the hit caused only a slight dent in my car door. The boxer reeled after a hard hit to the midriff. 11 success, triumph, coup, winner, sensation, Colloq smash (hit), sell-out: After opening in the West End the musical became a hit on ...
HOP|0|v. 1 jump, leap, bound, spring, vault; skip, caper, gambol, dance: Here comes Peter Cottontail, Hopping down the bunny trail. 2 take a (short) trip or voyage, travel, come, go, proceed; fly: Those yuppies think nothing of hopping over to Paris just for dinner. --n. 3 jump, leap, bound, spring, vault; skip, caper, dance: In a few hops the bird was off the branch and onto my finger. 4 (short) trip or flight or journey or voyage: The Bahamas are just a hop from Miami.
HOT|0|adj. 1 fiery, white-hot, red-hot, piping hot, burning, blistering, scorching, roasting, frying, sizzling, searing, boiling, scalding, steaming, simmering, torrid, sweltering, sultry, heated: The hot, molten steel is cast into ingots here. During the day it is hot, but it cools down at night. 2 spicy, peppery, sharp, piquant, pungent, biting, acrid: She likes very hot food, with plenty of chilli. 3 intense, fervent, zealous, ardent, enthusiastic, passionate, fervid, vehement, excited, animated; impetuous, fiery, fierce, inflamed, sharp, violent: He had some hot words with the foreman who had dismissed him. 4 eager, keen, avid, anxious, burning; intense, fervent, zealous, ardent, enthusiastic, passionate, fervid, vehement, excited, animated, earnest, Slang US gung-ho: Desmond set out in hot pursuit of the thief. 5 recent, fresh, new, latest, brand-new: The hottest gossip is that she is marrying for the seventh time. 6 popular, sought-after, commercial, saleable, marketable: The publisher believes Zenobia's Memoirs to be the hot property of the year. 7 lustful, lecherous, libidinous, lubricous or lubricious, sensual, concupiscent, prurient, licentious, oversexed, sex-crazed, sex-mad, Archaic lickerish, horn-mad, Slang horny, Chiefly Brit randy, US hard up: They were really hot, not having been with anyone of the opposite sex for months. 8 intense, vivid, striking, bright, brilliant, dazzling, loud: That hot pink lipstick looks good with your suntan. 9 electrified, live, charged, powered: The hot wire connects to the other terminal - I think. 10 dangerous, precarious, risky, sensitive, delicate, unstable, touchy, unpredictable: The situation is getting a bit too hot to handle. --v. 11 hot up. intensify, build up, heighten, increase, worsen, warm up, heat up: The environment is hotting up as a political issue.
HUB|0|n. centre, focus, focal point, pivot, heart, core, nucleus, nave: This is the hub of the city, around which everything else moves.
HUE|0|n. colour, tint, shade, tinge, tone, cast, tincture, Technical chroma: The dust in the atmosphere gives the sunsets a reddish hue.
HUG|0|v. 1 embrace, clasp, squeeze, cuddle, snuggle, Archaic or literary clip: They hugged each other warmly, then kissed goodbye. 2 follow closely, cling to, stay or keep near or close to: We hugged the ground as the bullets whizzed by overhead. --n. 3 embrace, clasp, squeeze, Colloq clinch: She saw me, ran over, and gave me a big hug.
HUM|0|v. 1 buzz, drone, thrum, murmur, whirr, purr, vibrate, Technical bombinate or bombilate: I want to smell the wild flowers and hear the bees hum once again. 2 bustle, stir, be active, move briskly, Colloq tick (over): Within three months of completion, the new plant was humming. 3 intone: I said, 'Do you know your rock guitar is keeping me awake?', and he replied, 'No, man, but if you hum it I'll try to play it.' --n. 4 buzz, buzzing, drone, droning, thrum, thrumming, murmur, murmuring, murmuration, whirr, whirring, purr, purring, vibration: From the other room came the hum of conversation.
HUT|0|n. cabin, shack, shanty, shed, lean-to, shelter, cote, Literary cot, Australian gunyah: We found a tiny hut where we could keep out of the storm.
ICY|0|adj. 1 ice-cold, frigid, arctic, bitter, glacial, freezing, frozen, chill, glacial, hyperborean or hyperboreal, polar, Siberian, wintry, raw, cold, chilling, chilly: The icy wind cut through to the marrow of my bones. 2 cool, chill, chilly, frigid, distant, aloof, remote, freezing, ice-cold, unemotional, unimpassioned, stony, steely, callous, flinty, formal, reserved, forbidding, unfriendly, hostile: She fixed him with an icy stare.
ILL|0|adj. 1 ailing, unsound, sick, indisposed, infirm, unhealthy, in a bad way, diseased, afflicted, in bad health, sickly, unwell, not well, out of commission; invalided, valetudinarian; Colloq under the weather, in a bad way, poorly, not up to snuff, out of sorts, on the sick-list, off one's feed, Slang Brit dicky, seedy: Call a doctor - this man is ill. I was rather ill last night after eating that fish mousse. 2 bad, wicked, sinful, evil, iniquitous, immoral, depraved, vicious, vile, wrong, corrupt: Police raided several houses of ill repute. 3 hostile, unfriendly, antagonistic, belligerent, malevolent, malicious, ill-wishing, unkind(ly), harsh, cruel: The reading of the bequests sparked ill will amongst the heirs. 4 harmful, hurtful, injurious, detrimental, damaging, pernicious, dangerous, adverse, deleterious, baleful, bad, unfavourable, destructive, disastrous, catastrophic, ruinous, cataclysmic: He suffered no lasting ill effects from the accident. 5 bad, miserable, wretched, disastrous, unfavourable, unpropitious, untoward, disturbing, unfortunate, unlucky, inauspicious, ominous, unpromising, sinister, unwholesome: Ill fortune led Ulysses to our isle. It is an ill wind that blows nobody good. 6 ill at ease. uncomfortable, discomfited, uneasy, edgy, on edge, fidgety, nervous, anxious, disturbed, distressed, troubled, awkward, unsure, uncertain: I felt ill at ease in the presence of so august a personage. --n. 7 evil, abuse: Speak no ill of her in my home! 8 harm, damage, injury, hurt, mischief, trouble, misfortune, misery, affliction, pain, distress, woe, woefulness, discomfort, unpleasantness, disaster, catastrophe, cataclysm, calamity, adversity, damage, suffering, ruin, destruction: You will be held responsible if any ill befalls the children. 9 injustice, inequity, wrong, evil, sin, transgression, abuse, mistreatment, maltreatment: He entered politics hoping to cure some of society's ills. --adv. 10 badly, adversely, unfavourably, poorly, inauspiciously, unfo...
IMP|0|n. devil(kin), demon, sprite, evil spirit, hobgoblin, goblin, elf, pixie or pixy, leprechaun, puck, brownie, fairy; scamp, urchin, gamin, rogue, rascal, mischief-maker, brat: Sitting on my shoulder as I write is a tiny imp that inserts the misspellings. Give me a hug, you little imp!
IRK|0|v. irritate, annoy, vex, pester, provoke, chafe, nettle, exasperate, Colloq needle, miff, aggravate, bug, peeve, rub (someone) (up) the wrong way, put out: It really irks me to know that we lost because we didn't practise.
JAB|0|v. 1 stab, thrust, poke, dig, prod; plunge; nudge; tap: The doctor jabbed a needle into my arm. 2 punch, hit, strike, belt, smack, rap, whack, thwack, cuff, thump, wallop; elbow; Colloq clip, sock, slug, biff: I jabbed him in the jaw with a quick left. --n. 3 stab, thrust, poke, dig, prod, nudge: I felt the jab of her elbow signalling me to be quiet. 4 punch, belt, smack, rap, whack, thwack, cuff, thump, wallop, Colloq clip, sock, slug, biff: A hard jab in the stomach made the bully turn to pudding.
JAG|0|n. spree, carouse, orgy, bout, Colloq binge, US and Canadian toot: She was terribly hung-over after last night's jag.
JAM|0|v. 1 cram, force, push, wedge, stuff, press, ram, squeeze, shove, pack, crowd: We were jammed in so tightly that we couldn't move. 2 block, obstruct, congest, fill up, clog, plug, stop up: The toilet is jammed with paper again. 3 slam, activate, actuate: I jammed on the brakes. --n. 4 obstruction, blockage, blocking, block, congestion, tie-up, bottleneck, stoppage: She was stuck in a traffic jam for an hour. 5 crush, squeeze, crowd, mob, swarm, multitude, throng, mass, horde, pack, press: You wouldn't believe the jam of football fans at the cup final! 6 trouble, difficulty, predicament, quandary, dilemma, Colloq bind, fix, hole, pickle, hot water, (tight) spot, scrape: Harry helped me out of a jam once, and I won't forget it.
JAR|0|n. crock; receptacle, vessel, container, urn, pot, vase; jug, pitcher, ewer, flagon, carafe, bottle, amphora: We always keep some small change in that blue jar.
JOB|0|n. 1 work, employment, position, berth, livelihood; career, occupation, calling, vocation, appointment, pursuit, field, trade, craft, profession, m÷tier, area: What kind of job is she looking for? Harry has a new job. 2 assignment, responsibility, concern, chore, task, undertaking, function, duty, role, mission, province, contribution, charge: It is my job to see that the machines run properly. 3 task, undertaking, procedure, proceeding, affair, operation, project, activity, business, matter, chore: The job of changing the gasket will take only a few minutes. 4 problem, difficulty, burden, nuisance, bother; toil, grind, drudgery; Colloq headache, pain (in the neck), hassle, Slang pain in the Brit arse or US ass: It was a real job getting them to pay for the damage. 5 crime, felony; robbery, burglary, Slang US and Canadian caper: From the modus operandi, I'd say that the same gang did that job in Manchester. --v. 6 Often, job out. let out, assign, apportion, allot, share out, contract, hire, employ, subcontract, farm out, consign, commission: They undertake to do the work, but then they job it out to others.
JOG|0|v. 1 trot, lope, dogtrot, run: I jog around the reservoir every morning for exercise. 2 jar, prod, nudge, arouse, stir, stimulate, prompt, activate, shake: I jogged his memory by referring to the time the dog bit him. 3 bounce, shake, jolt, joggle, jounce, jerk: I was being jogged about in the back of the van as we sped over the rocky terrain.
JOT|0|v. 1 Usually, jot down. make a note of, write or note (down), put or set or take down, record: Jot down this telephone number. --n. 2 scrap, grain, (wee) bit, speck, mite, iota, whit, particle, tittle, Colloq slightest, US and Canadian tad, smidgen or smidgin: I don't care a jot what she thinks about the situation in Central America.
JOY|0|n. 1 pleasure, gratification, satisfaction, happiness, contentment, enjoyment, gladness, delight, felicity, elation, exaltation, ecstasy, bliss, exhilaration, exultation, rapture: We felt indescribable joy at seeing the children safe and sound. 2 gaiety, cheerfulness, cheer, glee, buoyancy, joviality, jollity, jocundity, joyfulness, joyousness, jubilation, merriment, light-heartedness, blithesomeness: Let me wish you joy in this holiday season. 3 delight, pleasure, treat, blessing, gratification, satisfaction, prize: A thing of beauty is a joy forever.
JUG|0|n. pitcher, ewer, urn, carafe, bottle, flask, decanter, jar: She came in from the barn carrying a jug of fresh milk.
JUT|0|v. extend, overhang, project, protrude, stick out, beetle: The balcony juts out over the lake.
KEG|0|n. cask, barrel, butt, hogshead, tun, puncheon: We bought a keg of beer for the party.
KEY|0|n. 1 latchkey, skeleton key, passkey, opener: Have you lost your car keys again? You will need a key to open the air valve on the radiator. 2 clue, cue, guide, indication, indicator, explanation: The key to his behaviour can probably be found in the way his mother treated him in his childhood. 3 pitch, tone, timbre, level, tonality, frequency: The song was originally written in the key of C. 4 legend, explanation, description, explication, clarification, translation: A key to the symbols appears on every other page. 5 mood, tenor, tone, humour, style: In this passage there is a change to a more sombre key. --adj. 6 important, essential, vital, necessary, crucial, critical, main, pivotal: Automatic reversal is a key feature of this cassette player. Roderick is a key man in the company.
KIN|0|n. 1 family, relative(s), relation(s), kindred, kinsfolk or US and Canadian kinfolk, kinsman, kinswoman, stock, clan, blood-relation(s), blood-relative(s): We might have the same name, but he's no kin of mine. Grandmother says that too many people are thoughtless of their kin these days. --adj. 2 related, akin (to), kindred, consanguineous, consanguine, cognate, agnate: One often forgets that all men are kin.
KIT|0|n. apparatus, gear, equipment, paraphernalia, appurtenances, rig, accoutrements or US also accouterments, tackle, trappings, supplies, furnishings; instruments, tools, utensils, implements: Did you bring your tennis kit? The model aeroplanes were built from kits. The plumber left his tool kit behind.
LAD|0|n. boy, young man, fellow, schoolboy, youth, juvenile, youngster, hobbledehoy, stripling, (street) urchin, (street) Arab, gamin, Colloq guy, (little) shaver, kid, US sprout: Round up a few of the lads for a game of football.
LAG|0|v. 1 fall behind, linger, loiter, delay, straggle, trail, hang back, dally, dawdle, inch or poke along: If you lag behind too far, you'll never catch up. 2 diminish, decrease, slacken, abate, slow (down or up), flag, wane, ebb, falter, fail, let up, fall (off or away), ease (up), lighten: Contributions to the fund are lagging. Military preparations are lagging.
LAP|0|v. 1 Often, lap up. lick up, tongue; sip, drink: In a moment, the cat had lapped all the cream from the saucer. 2 wash, splash, ripple, plash, purl: The water rose till it was lapping at the doorstep. 3 lap up. a consume, drink, eat: The dog lapped up every last scrap of food. b accept, believe, credit, fall for, Colloq swallow (whole), buy: She lapped up Felix's sob story and invited him in at once.
LAW|0|n. 1 rule, regulation, ordinance, statute, act, enactment, by-law, measure, edict, decree, order, directive, injunction, command, commandment, canon, mandate, ukase: They have a law that forbids smoking on aeroplanes. 2 corpus juris, (legal) code, constitution, rules and regulations, charter, Law equity: The law must be applied equally to all citizens. 3 principle, proposition, theory, theorem, formula, axiom, deduction, corollary, postulate, conclusion, inference: Not every observable phenomenon obeys the laws of physics.
LAX|0|adj. 1 loose, slack, casual, slipshod, easygoing, careless, negligent, permissive, weak, indulgent, flexible, relaxed: Law enforcement has always been lax in that city. 2 imprecise, undefined, indefinite, non-specific, unspecific, vague, shapeless, amorphous, general, broad, inexact, hit-or-miss, careless, untidy, Colloq sloppy: His ideas about tactics are too lax for a military man.
LAY|0|v. 1 place, put (down), set (down), position, deposit; spread: Lay the cloth on the table, then lay the book on top of it. 2 set, arrange: The table was laid for four. 3 Often, lay down. establish, build, construct: Before I can argue my case, I must lay a firm foundation of trust. 4 stake, bet, wager, gamble, hazard, risk: I'll lay ten to one that you won't be able to move that crate. 5 destroy, suppress, exorcize: Did Edward ever succeed in laying that ghost of a rumour that haunted his career for so long? 6 present, offer, submit, set or put forth, advance, bring or put forward, set out: We have laid our proposal before the board. 7 charge, impute, direct, lodge, prefer, aim, attribute, ascribe: There is no justification for laying the blame on Leonard. 8 copulate (with), couple (with), have (sexual) intercourse (with), sleep (with), lie (with), bed, go to bed (with), mate (with), have sex (with), go all the way (with), service, Slang screw, shack up (with), Brit roger, Taboo fuck. 9 lay bare. expose, reveal, uncover, disclose, divulge, bring to light, show, unveil, lift the veil from: She laid bare the most intimate details of their relationship. 10 lay down. stipulate, require, demand, insist on, dictate: She laid down the conditions on which he could return home. 11 lay hold of. seize, grab, snatch, nab, catch or get hold of, get: I have been trying to lay hold of that book for weeks. 12 lay in. See 19 (a), below. 13 lay into. attack, assault, set about, assail, lambaste, belabour: We laid into the gang and gave them a sound drubbing. 14 lay it on. exaggerate, overstate, embroider: Don't believe what Frank tells you - he really lays it on pretty thick sometimes. 15 lay low. See 18 (c), below. 16 lay off. a suspend; dismiss, discharge, fire, let go, cashier, drum out of the corps, Colloq (give the) sack, (give the) axe, kick out, (give the) boot, boot out, give (someone) his or her walking papers: Fifty workers were laid off because business was slack. b let up...
LEG|0|n. 1 limb, member, Colloq pin, peg, stump, Slang gam: I have a touch of arthritis in my left leg. 2 support, brace, prop, upright, standard, column, pillar: One of the legs of this table is about to collapse. 3 part, portion, segment, stretch, stage, section, length, lap: The first leg of my journey passed without incident. 4 a leg up. boost, assistance, push, help, helping hand, advance, support, US and Canadian assist: Let me give you a leg up over the wall. Gordon might give you a leg up in getting a job. 5 leg it. run, hurry, hasten, scurry, Colloq scoot, skedaddle: He legged it down the street to catch the bus. 6 not a leg to stand on. defenceless, unsupported, insupportable or unsupportable, indefensible, unjustifiable, untenable, invalid: She insists she's right, but she hasn't got a leg to stand on. 7 on one's or its last legs. decrepit, failing, exhausted, dying, worn out, run-down, falling apart or to pieces, broken-down, the worse for wear; dilapidated, rickety, shabby, ramshackle, crumbling, tumbledown: George looked as if he was on his last legs. My car is on its last legs. 8 pull (someone's) leg. tease, mock, jeer at, taunt, gibe, make fun of, chaff, guy, fool, deceive, Chiefly Brit twit, Colloq rib, kid, rag: We were just pulling his leg, but he took it seriously. 9 shake a leg. a hurry (up), hasten, rush, Colloq get going or moving or cracking, look alive or lively: You'll have to shake a leg to catch that train. b dance, trip the light fantastic (toe), Slang hoof it, US cut a rug: What do you say we go out and shake a leg tonight? 10 stretch one's legs. (take or go for a) walk, (take some) exercise: After sitting for so long, I have to stretch my legs.
LET|0|v. 1 allow (to), permit (to), sanction (to), give permission or leave (to), authorize (to), license (to), suffer (to): Don't let him go alone. Let George do it. 2 cause (to), arrange for, enable (to): Let me know if you have any difficulty. Let me help you. Let the police know of any crime. 3 Sometimes, let out. rent (out), hire (out), lease (out), charter (out); contract (out), subcontract (out), farm (out), job (out): Mrs Finney lets rooms by the week. Much of the work is let out to people who work at home. 4 let down. disappoint, fail, frustrate; disenchant, dissatisfy, disillusion: He promised to be here at nine, but he let me down. 5 let in. admit, allow in; include, take in, receive, welcome, induct, install or instal: I'll just open a window and let in some fresh air. I wouldn't want to be a member of a club that would let in someone like me. 6 let off. a pardon, forgive, excuse, release, discharge, let go: They let him off with only a severe reprimand. b exonerate, absolve, clear, acquit, vindicate, Slang let off the hook: When the real culprit confessed, she was let off. c detonate, explode, detonate, discharge, fire, set off: Don't let off those fireworks so near the haystack. d emit, give out or off, release, throw off or out, let loose, exude: Some plastics let off an awful smell when they burn. 7 let on. a confess, admit, disclose, divulge, reveal, expose, let it be known, let out, say, tell, give away, let slip, betray; leak: I'll never let on that you are to blame. b feign, affect, pretend, fake, (put on an) act, simulate, dissemble, dissimulate: He let on that he had a bad leg and couldn't play in the match, when in fact he just wanted to go away for the weekend. 8 let out. a See 7 (a), above. b (let) loose, liberate, (set) free, release, let go, discharge: He served three years before being let out. Let the cat out, will you. c emit, give vent to, produce: She let out a scream that could have woken the dead. d end, stop, break up, finish, close, ter...
LIE|0|v. 1 prevaricate, fabricate, misrepresent, invent, commit perjury, perjure or forswear oneself, Colloq fib: If he says that I ate the last cake, he's lying. --n. 2 falsehood, untruth, falsification, misrepresentation, fiction, invention, prevarication, fib, fabrication, Colloq story, cock-and-bull story, (tall) tale, whopper, US fish story, fish tale: His claim of having been attacked was found to be a lie.
LOB|0|v. 1 loft, toss, pitch, shy, heave, fling, chuck, hurl, throw: She lobbed the ball high in the air over the net. --n. 2 toss, throw, bowl, pitch, hit, US fly: I misjudged the slow lob and swung too soon.
LOP|0|v. Often, lop off. chop off, trim, top, head, crop, prune, dock, clip, trim, snip off, shear off, cut off, pare, shorten, hack off, amputate: Lop the lower branches off close to the trunk.
LOT|0|n. 1 collection, batch, consignment, assortment, group, portion, set, quantity, grouping, apportionment: They are expecting a new lot of furniture this afternoon. 2 luck, fortune, destiny, fate, kismet, plight, doom, end: It seems to be my lot to stay in the same place all my life. 3 lottery, drawing, raffle, drawing lots or straws: The winner will be decided by lot. 4 share, portion, division, interest, part, allotment, assignment, apportionment, ration, allowance: Marguerite was bequeathed the house, while my lot included the paintings. 5 a lot or lots. a a good or great deal: You have a lot of nerve! I'd give a lot to be able to paint like you. He got into a lot of trouble. b much, loads or a load, mountains or a mountain, tons or a ton, barrels or a barrel, stacks or a stack, piles or a pile, heaps or a heap, masses or a mass, oceans , Colloq oodles, scads, US gobs: She has lots of money. c many, myriad, numerous, countless, reams, infinite or an infinity, quantities or a quantity, enormous numbers or an enormous number, Colloq oodles, scads, loads, tons, masses,: There are lots of fish in the sea. 6 the lot. everything, Colloq the whole kit and caboodle, all: I'll give you a fiver for the lot.
LOW|0|adj. 1 short, squat, little, small, stubby, stumpy, stunted; low-lying: The terrain has many low shrubs, not more than two feet tall. 2 inadequate, insufficient, deficient, down, short, sparse, scanty, scant, limited: The air in the tyres is a bit low. Our water supply ran low. 3 coarse, unrefined, indelicate, improper, naughty, risqu÷, indecent, unseemly, vulgar, crude, common, rude, offensive, gross, ill-bred, lewd, obscene, ribald, bawdy, scurrilous, smutty, pornographic, dirty: The old burlesque acts were characterized by their low humour. 4 weak, frail, feeble, debilitated, enervated, sickly, unhealthy, infirm, shaky, decrepit, ill, sick: He's very low and sinking fast. 5 ineffectual, ineffective, weak: Her resistance to disease is low. I have a low pain threshold. 6 miserable, dismal, wretched, abysmal, sorry, abject, destitute: I seem to have reached a low point in my career. 7 humble, poor, low-born, lowly, base, inferior, base-born, plebeian, proletariat, ignoble: He rose from those low beginnings to a peerage. 8 unhappy, depressed, dejected, sad, gloomy, melancholy, miserable, despondent, disconsolate, blue, downcast, down, glum, wretched, morose, crestfallen, broken-hearted, heart-broken, tearful, lachrymose, sorrowful, mournful, heavy-hearted: I felt low for weeks after the death of my kitten. 9 inferior, second-rate, poor, bad, not up to par, worthless, shoddy, shabby, mediocre, substandard: Their products are of low quality. 10 inferior, lower, lesser, small, smaller: Play a low card. 11 low-cut, d÷collet÷, revealing, Colloq US low and behold in the front and vie de Bohëme in the back: Gilda wore a low, strapless black satin evening gown. 12 base, vile, abject, contemptible, despicable, mean, menial, servile, ignoble, degraded, vulgar, foul, dastardly, depraved, nasty, sordid: That was a low trick he played telling on his friends. I didn't know that anyone could sink to such a low level. 13 quiet, hushed, soft, subdued, gentle, muted, muffled, stif...
LUG|0|v. drag, tug, tow, haul, heave; carry, tote, transport: You're mistaken if you think I'm going to lug that case round everywhere.
MAD|0|adj. 1 insane, deranged, crazy, crazed, demented, lunatic, unhinged, delirious, out of one's mind or head, psychotic, maniacal, (mentally) unbalanced, mentally ill, of unsound mind, non compos mentis, Chiefly Brit daft, Colloq out of one's head, touched (in the head), screwy, cuckoo, mental, certifiable, having a screw loose, dotty, cracked, mad as a March hare, mad as a hatter, not all there, off-the-wall, stark raving mad, Chiefly Brit potty, US nutty as a fruit cake; Slang nuts, loony, goofy, loopy, crackers, batty, off one's rocker or trolley, bananas, Brit round the bend or twist, twisted, off one's chump, barmy or balmy, bonkers, US out to lunch, bughouse, bugs, crazy as a bedbug or a coot, loco, wacky, out of one's tree, meshuga: You're mad if you think I'm going in there with that lion. 2 foolish, silly, childish, immature, puerile, wild, nonsensical, foolhardy, madcap, heedless, senseless, absurd, imprudent, unwise, indiscreet, rash, ill-advised, ill-considered, reckless, extravagant, irrational, fatuous: I did many mad things when I was a student. Hitching to Inverness is a mad idea. 3 wild, ferocious; rabid: Have they caught that mad dog yet? 4 furious, angry, infuriated, incensed, enraged, irate, fuming, berserk, irritated, provoked, wrathful, exasperated, Literary wroth: Will you get mad if I ask you a question? Please don't be mad with me - I wrecked your car. 5 like mad. madly, feverishly, in a frenzy, frenziedly, desperately, excitedly, violently, wildly, hysterically, furiously; enthusiastically, fervently, ardently; Colloq like crazy: He's been running about like mad trying to find her. 6 mad (about or for). crazy, infatuated, ardent, enthusiastic, eager, avid, zealous, passionate, fervent, fervid, keen, fanatical, wild, Colloq hooked, Brit dotty, Slang nuts: She's absolutely mad about cricket.
MAN|0|n. 1 gentleman, male, fellow, Colloq guy, chap, Brit bloke, squire, Slang gink, geezer, US gazabo: Have you met the man she is going to marry? 2 people, human beings, mankind, mortals, Homo sapiens, humanity, humankind, the human race: Man wants but little here below. 3 valet, manservant, gentleman's gentleman, servant, retainer, houseboy, houseman: Humberson sent his man round with a note. --v. 4 staff, people, crew; cover: Who will man the office while I am away?
MAR|0|v. 1 damage, ruin, mutilate, deface, spoil, scar, disfigure: The surface of the table was marred by a deep scratch. 2 damage, wreck, ruin, impair, harm, hurt, blight, blot, taint, stain, tarnish: She claims that her reputation was marred by the article.
MIX|0|v. 1 mingle, combine, intermingle, blend, incorporate, put together, merge, unite, alloy, commingle, amalgamate, coalesce: Mix the ingredients to a creamy consistency. 2 socialize, fraternize, consort, hobnob, go round or around or about (together), get together, keep company, join (with), associate (with), Colloq hang out or about or round or around (with): The Hatfields and the McCoys do not mix very well, so you'd best invite them separately. 3 mix in. add, stir in, combine, fold in: Mix in the chocolate at the very end. 4 mix up. a See mix, 1, above. b confuse, confound, bewilder, muddle, perplex, puzzle, fluster, upset; addle, disturb; Colloq US and Canadian discombobulate: She mixed me up so that I cannot decide what to do. c snarl, ensnarl, tangle, entangle, scramble, jumble: The treasures were all mixed up with the rubbish at the church sale. d confuse, interchange, exchange: Have they mixed up our room keys again? 5 mix up in. involve, implicate, include, connect, draw or drag into: Wasn't Wilcox mixed up in that scandal last year? 6 mix up with. confuse, mistake, misidentify, confound; interchange, exchange: I think you must have me mixed up with somebody else. The porter mixed up my bag with someone else's. --n. 7 mixture, blend, compound; amalgam, combination, alloy, assortment, distribution: Was this cake made from a mix or from scratch? The centre party has a good mix of liberals and conservatives.
MOB|0|n. 1 horde, host, press, throng, crowd, pack, herd, swarm, crush, jam, multitude, mass, body, assemblage, collection, group: The mob surged forward, hurling sticks and stones at anyone in uniform. 2 rabble, riff-raff, proletariat, populace, the masses, great unwashed, hoi polloi, canaille, bourgeoisie, lower classes, scum (of the earth), dregs of society: The mob cheered when the king was beheaded. --v. 3 crowd (round or around), jostle, throng, surround, beset, clamour over, swoop down on or upon: Thousands of screaming teenagers mobbed the singer.
MOW|0|v. 1 cut (down), scythe, trim, shear: You don't need to mow the lawn so much during a dry spell. 2 mow down. annihilate, kill, massacre, butcher, slaughter, exterminate, liquidate, eradicate, wipe out, cut down, cut to pieces, destroy, decimate: The first platoon was mowed down by machine-gun fire.
MUD|0|n. muck, ooze, slime, mire, clay, sludge, silt, dirt, US and Canadian gumbo or gombo: The mud came up to my ankles.
MUG|0|n. 1 jug, tankard, stein, toby (jug), pot, beaker, cup: The relief workers passed round mugs of hot coffee to the homeless. 2 face, visage, features, countenance, Slang puss, kisser, mush, Brit clock, dial, Archaic phiz or phizog, US pan: The ex-boxer has a mug that only a mother could love. 3 fool, duffer, simpleton, dupe, gull, innocent, Colloq chump, mark, soft or easy touch, Brit muggins, Slang sucker: The mug thought he had found a full wallet. --v. 4 make a face or faces, grimace: Here are some pictures of the twins mugging for the camera. 5 attack, set upon, rob, assault; garrotte, throttle: Anyone who walks through the park at night risks getting mugged. 6 mug up (on). study, Formal lucubrate, Colloq cram, burn the midnight oil, get up (on), Brit swot, bone up (on): I have to mug up on my Latin for tomorrow's examination.
MUM|0|adj. 1 silent, mute, close-mouthed, quiet, tight-lipped: She swore she would keep mum about where the money was hidden. --n. 2 Mum's the word. Don't tell a soul, Keep silent, Keep secret, Keep quiet, Keep (something) to oneself, Keep (something) under one's hat, Say nothing, Tell no-one, Play dumb: He told who stole the bell, but mum's the word.
NAB|0|v. catch, capture, arrest, put or place under arrest, seize, apprehend, pick up, bring in, take into custody, Colloq pinch, collar, run in, nail, Brit nick: They finally nabbed that cat burglar in Hampstead.
NAG|0|v. 1 Sometimes, nag at. annoy, irritate, irk, pester, criticize, ride, scold, carp (at), upbraid, badger, harass, harry, vex, henpeck, torment, hector, pick at, goad, pick on, find fault with, berate, nettle, bully, provoke, plague, worry, bother, Brit chivvy or chivy or chevy, Colloq needle: He nags her day and night about going on a diet. --n. 2 scold, harpy, pest, shrew, virago, termagant, fishwife: You certainly can be a terrible nag, can't you?
NAP|0|v. 1 doze, nod (off), catnap, Colloq catch forty winks, drop off (to sleep), get some shut-eye, snooze, zizz, US catch or log a few zees (Z's): I nap every afternoon. --adv. 2 napping. unawares, off guard, unexpectedly, in an unguarded moment: The ball, hit to his backhand, caught him napping. --n. 3 doze, catnap, siesta, Colloq forty winks, shut-eye, snooze, zizz, Brit lie-down: Take a short nap before dinner.
NET|0|n. 1 network, netting, mesh, mesh-work, web, webbing, openwork, lattice, lattice-work, trellis, trellis-work, lace-work, reticulum, reticle, rete, plexus, grid, grid-work, grille, grate, grating, fretwork; sieve, screen, strainer, sifter: They watched the fishermen mending their nets. --v. 2 catch, capture, trap, entrap, snare, ensnare, bag: As I bring the fish close to the boat, you net it with this.
NEW|0|adj. 1 novel, original, unique, unusual, different, fresh, creative, imaginative, brand-new: Ruth has a new idea for the sales campaign. 2 latest, late, modern, contemporary, modish, stylish, fashionable, chic, recent, advanced, up to date, brand-new, late-model, Colloq trendy, Slang mod, hip: MacGregor buys a new car every year: it has to be equipped with the newest gadgets. 3 fresh, further, additional, supplemental, supplementary: Has the new issue of Verbatim come out yet? 4 unfamiliar, unknown, strange, different; unique, unheard of: I hear there's a new girl in your office. I want to introduce my new friend, Dan Hammond. Every year they discover a new virus. 5 revitalized, reborn, renewed, rejuvenated, changed, altered, redone, restored, redesigned, remodelled: I saw before me a new Marie. They published a new version of the Bible. 6 inexperienced, green, fresh, callow, unfledged, budding, immature, unripe, untrained: Let us look over the new recruits, Sergeant. 7 late, young, recent: We found newer fossils at higher levels. 8 uncharted, unexplored, untrodden, unknown, experimental: Astronomers are breaking new ground in the analysis of pulsars.
NIL|0|n. nothing, zero, nought or naught, aught or ought, Tennis, table tennis, etc. love, Cricket duck, US goose-egg, Slang US zip: Oxford United: 4; Queens Park Rangers: Nil.
NIP|0|v. 1 bite, nibble; pinch, snip, clip, cut, snap, tweak, twitch, trim, lop, crop, shear; grip, squeeze: The dog nipped the postman's ankle. Nip off the suckers to promote healthy growth of the tomatoes. 2 nip in the bud. stop, arrest, check, thwart, frustrate, stymie, forestall; quash, squelch, suppress, extinguish, put down: The revolt of the army officers was nipped in the bud. --n. 3 bite, nibble, morsel, pinch, snip: The deer had taken nips off the tips of the shrubbery. 4 chill, coldness, iciness, sharpness, tang, bite: There's a definite wintry nip in the air tonight.
NOD|0|v. 1 greet, acknowledge, recognize: The maítre d'hõtel nodded to me as I entered the restaurant. 2 say yes; consent, assent, agree, concur, acquiesce: Asked if she had seen Nick, the barmaid nodded. I asked permission to leave the room and the teacher nodded. 3 doze (off), nap, drowse, drop off, fall asleep: Exhausted travellers nodded in their chairs waiting for their flights to be announced. 4 slip (up), err, make a mistake, be mistaken or wrong; be careless or negligent or lax or inattentive: Sometimes, even Homer nods. --n. 5 signal, sign, cue, indication, gesture: I saw him give a nod to the barber, who suddenly held a cutthroat razor to my throat. 6 approval; consent, acquiescence, concurrence, assent, agreement, Colloq OK or okay: The company has given me the nod to open an office in Acapulco.
NOW|0|adv. 1 at present, just now, right now, at the present time or moment, at this (very) moment or minute or second or instant: He's in the shower and cannot come to the phone now. 2 these days, nowadays, today, in these times, at the moment, in this day and age, under or in the present circumstances or conditions, in the present climate, things being what they are, contemporarily, any more, any longer; for the time being, for the nonce: What makes you say that the minimum wage is enough to live on now? Selling now might bring the highest price. 3 at once, immediately, right away, without delay, instantly, promptly, Chiefly law instanter, Chiefly Brit straight away: I want you here now - not in five minutes, but now! 4 now and then or again. occasionally, from time to time, at times, on occasion, sometimes, sporadically, once in a while, every now and then or again, randomly, intermittently; infrequently, seldom, rarely, once in a blue moon: There was a power cut now and then. He visits his mother only now and then. --adj. 5 contemporary, up to date, modern, stylish, fashionable, trendy, Colloq in, with it: Advertisers must appeal to the yuppies of the now generation.
NUB|0|n. 1 projection, protuberance, knob, boss, lump, bump, knop, protrusion, bulge, node, knot; excrescence, swelling, tumescence: Press the small nub on the side to open the door. 2 essence, core, heart, nucleus, crux, point, gist, pith, kernel, nucleus, meat, (sum and) substance, main issue, gravamen: Let's get to the nub of the argument.
OAR|0|n. 1 paddle, scull: The ancient galleys sometimes had six men on each oar. 2 oarsman, oarswoman, bencher, sculler, rower, paddler: With Hanson out because of his back, we'll need a new oar for tomorrow's race.
ODD|0|adj. 1 strange, peculiar, unusual, uncommon, different, unexpected, unfamiliar, extraordinary, remarkable, atypical, untypical, exotic, out of the ordinary, unparalleled, unconventional, exceptional, unique, singular, individual, anomalous, idiosyncratic, rare, deviant, outlandish, uncanny, queer, curious, bizarre, weird, eccentric, funny, quaint, fantastic, freak, abnormal, freakish, Colloq offbeat, screwy, kinky, freaky, Slang Brit barmy, bent, rum, US and Canadian kooky or kookie: Ebenezer is an odd name for a dog. Where did you get that odd hat? I cannot account for his odd behaviour. 2 occasional, casual, part-time, irregular, random, sporadic, discontinuous, disconnected, various, varied, miscellaneous, sundry, incidental: After being made redundant, he worked at odd jobs for a year or so. The odd shower can be expected during the afternoon. 3 leftover, surplus, remaining, unused, spare, superfluous, extra: After the patterns were cut, we were allowed to take the odd scraps of fabric. 4 uneven, unmatched, unpaired: This gallery has an odd number of columns.
OFF|0|adv. 1 away, out, elsewhere: His secretary said that he'd gone off for the weekend. 2 distant, away, afar, far-off: The U-boat was a mile off. Christmas is only a month off. --adj. 3 incorrect, wrong, inaccurate, in error, mistaken, misguided, misled, off the mark: I'm afraid you're off on the question of the best way to approach him. 4 mad, insane, crazy, eccentric, touched (in the head), Colloq dotty, dippy, nutty, potty: Underwood's aunt is slightly off. 5 remote, distant, improbable, unlikely: He went to the station on the off chance that she would be on the midday train. 6 off work, at leisure, idle, free, open; on holiday: Can you get the day off tomorrow to go on a picnic with me? 7 sour, mouldy, bad, rotten, rancid, turned, high: The cream smells a bit off. 8 bad, unpropitious, disappointing, unsatisfactory, disheartening, displeasing, slack, slow, substandard, below par, below average, quiet: It has been an off year for the local football team. 9 cancelled, postponed: The meeting is off till next week. 10 situated, fixed, supplied: Is he really that well off? She was much worse off when they were married.
OIL|0|n. 1 lubricant, grease, lubricator, unguent: A little oil will stop that squeak. 2 fuel: Miraculously, the lamp burned for eight days with only one day's supply of oil. --v. 3 lubricate, grease: Oil the bearings or they will burn out.
OLD|0|adj. 1 elderly, ageing, aged, advanced in years or age, long-lived, past one's prime, grey, full of years, getting on (in years), hoary, superannuated, Colloq over the hill, past it: Bill is too old to continue working in the mine. 2 ancient, antiquated, antediluvian, fossil, prehistoric, Noachian, obsolete, antique, outdated, out of date, old-time, dated, archaic, stale, out-moded, pass÷, Literary Ogygian: The archaeological dig has turned up some interesting old artefacts. 3 time-worn, decayed, dilapidated, ramshackle, disintegrated, crumbling, shabby, worn out, dusty, broken-down, tumbledown, disused, unused, cast off, cast aside: They have torn down the old mill near the river. 4 long-standing, well-established, enduring, lasting, age-old, time-honoured: It is hard to see an old friendship die. 5 former, olden, bygone, early, primordial, primitive: In the old days, it took a week to travel from London to Edinburgh. 6 previous, preceding, prior, former, quondam, erstwhile, one-time, ex-: The West End was my old stamping-ground when I lived in London. 7 experienced, veteran, practised, (well-)versed, knowledgeable, proficient, accomplished, adept, skilled, expert, old-time: Charles is an old hand at steam engines. 8 dear, beloved, loved, esteemed, valued, precious, well-known, intimate, close, familiar: Penelope is an old friend of the family's.
ONE|0|adj. 1 single, lone, solitary, individual, sole, only: The one time I kissed Margie it was heaven. 2 unified, united, inseparable, joined, undivided, one and the same, identical, equal, at one, harmonious, in unison, whole, entire, complete: When he went into a trance, he felt one with his God. 3 a particular, a certain, a given, a specific: I recall one occasion when she brought all her dogs into work. --pron. 4 a person, an individual, a man or a woman, everybody, everyone, anybody, anyone; people; Possibly offensive man: One ought to treat others as one would like to be treated. One cannot be too careful these days. --n. 5 joke, story, anecdote, chestnut, one-liner; limerick, rhyme, ditty, song; bromide: Have you heard the one that begins, 'There was a young man from Loch Ness'?
ORB|0|n. sphere, ball, globe: The golden orb of the sun sank into the sea.
OUT|0|adv. 1 outside, outdoors, in or into the open air: If you go out take an umbrella. 2 away (from), abroad, elsewhere, not (at) home, gone (from), gone away (from), absent (from): She was out of the house when I phoned. 3 in or into the open, to or into public notice, for all to see, out of the closet: Everything will be brought out at the trial. 4 revealed, exposed, visible, discernible, manifest, in sight, in view: Are the stars out tonight? 5 short, minus, missing, in default, out of pocket: He is out the ø2000 he invested in a Welsh diamond mine. 6 free, at liberty, at large, loose, unconfined: They let Matilda out after she served her sentence. 7 completely, thoroughly, effectively, entirely: I was tired out after that long swim. --adj. 8 unconscious, senseless, insensible, Colloq out cold, out like a light: He has been out for almost an hour. 9 dated, out-dated, out-moded, pass÷, old-fashioned, antiquated, old hat, d÷mod÷, obsolete, unfashionable: Longer skirts were out in the mid-1960s. 10 outlying, distant, far-off, peripheral: He was planning to travel to the outer reaches of his empire. Let's sail to some of the out islands. 11 exhausted, gone, finished, ended; over, completed: Our food was out. Rescue came before the day was out. 12 inaccurate, incorrect, wrong, at fault, faulty, off, wide of the mark: Your figures are out by a factor of four. 13 unacceptable, forbidden, prohibited, not allowed, Colloq not on: Smoking is out in the dining room. 14 extinguished, unlit; off, doused; inoperative, non-functioning, out of order or commission, unserviceable, broken: Make certain that all camp-fires are completely out. The light is out in the corridor. --n. 15 alibi, excuse, escape, loophole, evasion: She used your visit as an out to avoid calling on her mother.
OWE|0|v. 1 be in debt to, be indebted to, be beholden to: It must be a good feeling not to owe anyone any money at all. 2 owing to. because of, on account of, thanks to; through, as a result of, resulting from, Colloq due to: Owing to my schedule, I cannot stay the night. The higher tides are owing to the positions of the sun and moon.
PAD|0|n. 1 cushion, pillow, wad, wadding, stuffing, padding, filling, filler: Wrap a soft cotton pad over the wound to protect it. 2 writing-pad, note-pad, memo pad, block (of paper), jotter, US filler: You'd best take a pad with you to make notes at the lecture. 3 flat, apartment, room(s), home, place, quarters, Colloq hang-out, Brit digs or diggings, Slang US flop: A few friends are crashing at my pad while they're in town. --v. 4 cushion, wad, stuff, fill; upholster: The chair seats are padded with foam rubber, but the arms are bare. 5 Sometimes, pad out. expand, inflate, stretch, dilate, lengthen, protract, extend, blow up, flesh out, puff up, augment, spin out, amplify: He pads his weekly newspaper column with trivia in order to fill the space.
PAL|0|n. 1 friend, consort, comrade, alter ego, crony, companion, amigo, playmate, classmate, Colloq chum, sidekick, mate, Chiefly US and Canadian buddy: Jim left a little while ago with a few of his pals. --v. 2 pal (up) with or about or US around (with). associate (with), be or become friendly or friends (with), be or get or become on friendly or intimate terms (with), go (around or about) with, fraternize (with), consort (with), spend time together or with, keep company (with), Colloq hang out or about or around (with), knock about or around (with): Fiona and Isabel palled up last year. Do you still pal about with Timothy?
PAN|0|n. 1 saucepan, frying-pan, skillet, pot, casserole, US spider: Melt a teaspoonful of butter in the pan, add the mixture, and stir briskly over a medium heat. 2 face, visage, mien, faúade, Slang kisser, mug, puss: The worst part of Alf's not working is that I have to look at his ugly pan all day. 3 depression, indentation, concavity, cavity, hollow, pit, hole, crater: In a rain-shower, the pans fill with water and the desert blooms. --v. 4 wash, separate, sift: For years prospectors have panned for gold in these hills. 5 criticize, censure, find fault, put down, reject, flay, excoriate, Brit hammer, Colloq knock, roast, slate, Slang Brit rubbish, US trash: The critics panned the play and it closed after a week. 6 pan out. succeed, thrive, prosper, flourish, fare well, make it; work out, turn out, result, come out, end (up), conclude, culminate, eventuate: Your grandiose plans for irrigating the Sahara didn't pan out, either! How did the election pan out?
PAR|0|adj. 1 standard, normal, average, expected: A success rate of two per cent is par for these candidates. --n. 2 level, rank, standing, scale, standard: How can you place yourself on a par with her as a tennis player? 3 above par. above average, superior, outstanding, excellent, exceptional; choice, select, prime: Since I stopped taking that medication, I've been feeling above par. I am pleased to announce that the test results were above par for the school as a whole. 4 at par. average, level, even, equal, equivalent, standard; par value: The shares are selling at par, or below their true market value. 5 below or under par. a below average, substandard, inferior, second-rate, mediocre, middling, not up to par, poor, inadequate, unsatisfactory, wanting, bad, wretched, miserable, awful, terrible, Colloq lousy, not up to snuff or scratch: Ian's goal-keeping has been below par all season. b ill, sickly, unhealthy, unwell, not (very) well, not oneself, not in good or the best shape, in bad shape, Brit off form, off colour; Colloq under the weather, poorly, not up to snuff: I was feeling below par. 6 up to par. all right, adequate, average, satisfactory, good enough, passable, acceptable, Colloq OK or okay, up to scratch or snuff, fair to middling: If your game had been up to par, Davis would not have won.
PAT|0|v. 1 tap, touch, dab, pet, stroke, caress: Being short, he hated it when people affectionately patted him on the head. Pat down the coverlet to smooth out the wrinkles. 2 pat on the back. congratulate, commend, praise, compliment, encourage, reassure: The sales manager patted me on the back for clinching the contract. --n. 3 tap, touch, dab, stroke, caress: Give the dog a pat and he'll leave you alone. 4 (small) piece, patty, lump, cake, portion; patty: The waiter put a pat of butter on my plate. 5 pat on the back. commendation, praise, compliment, flattery, encouragement, credit, reassurance, approval, endorsement, recognition; honeyed words: I was expecting a big bonus, but all I got was a pat on the back.
PAY|0|v. 1 recompense, compensate, remunerate, reward, indemnify; repay, refund, reimburse; pay off, pay out, pay up, satisfy, clear, remit, discharge, liquidate, settle, honour, meet: Do you think that nurses are poorly paid? You have 30 days to pay this invoice. 2 reward, benefit, recompense, requite, compensate: Thurlew has been amply paid by having his name engraved on the roll of honour. 3 extend, bestow, transmit, pass on, give, deliver: Please pay my respects to your wife. 4 benefit, profit, avail, (turn out to) be or prove profitable or worthwhile, yield a return, be advantageous, produce results, pay off: It no longer pays to complain about the service in the shops. Honesty pays. 5 pay back, repay, retaliate, settle (accounts) (with), even the score or a score, reciprocate, requite, take or get revenge on, avenge oneself for or on, treat in kind, hit or strike or get back (at), settle or pay off or even a score or the score (with), exact one's pound of flesh (from), make (someone) pay (for), punish, chastise, castigate, Brit pay out, Colloq get even (with): If I catch him, I'll pay him for turning informer. 6 suffer (the consequences), answer (for), make amends (for), atone (for), get one's (just) deserts, undergo punishment (for), be punished (for): If I catch him, I'll make him pay. Society requires that he pay for his crime. 7 produce or make or generate or earn money, yield a return, pay off: His vending-machine business certainly pays well. 8 pay back. a recompense, compensate, remunerate, reward, indemnify; repay, pay off, refund, reimburse: I paid back every penny I borrowed from the bank. I'll pay her back if it's the last thing I do. b See 5, above. 9 pay for. See 6, above. 10 pay off. a See 4 and 7, and 8(a), above. b bribe, suborn, buy off, grease (someone's) palm, give (someone) a bribe or a rebate, Colloq give (someone) a kickback, slip (someone) something: Did he really pay off the judges to select his daughter as Miss Tyneside? 11 pay out. a distri...
PEG|0|v. 1 pin, dowel, rod, stick, bolt; thole or thole-pin; clothes-peg, hook: Pegs and glue are often used for fastening good furniture together. Hang your coat on the peg. 2 off the peg. ready-made, ready-to-wear, stock: As bespoke clothing is so dear, I buy mine off the peg. 3 take down a peg (or two). humble, diminish, lower, subdue, suppress, downgrade, dishonour, mortify, humiliate, put down, abase, debase, devalue or devaluate: He was acting a bit high and mighty, so she took him down a peg or two. --v. 4 fasten, secure, make fast, fix, attach, pin: They pegged the tent firmly to the ground. 5 fix, attach, pin, set (by), control by, limit by, restrict, confine, freeze, bind, regulate, govern: In indexing, the rate of inflation is often used for pegging wages. 6 toss, throw, shy, flip, sling, cast: I'll bet a fiver you can't peg that stone across the river. 7 peg away or US also along. work (away) (at), persevere (at), apply oneself (to), persist (in or at), go to or at (it), keep at (it), stick to or with or at (it), stay with or at (it), carry on (with or at), Colloq plug away (at), beaver away (at), hammer or bang or peck away (at): Trevor pegs away at his homework every evening.
PEN|0|n. 1 writing instrument, fountain-pen, ball-point (pen), Brit trade mark Biro, Old-fashioned quill: Dearest, I have finally found time to put pen to paper. I prefer a pen with a fine point. --v. 2 write (down or up or out), jot down, (make a) note (of), draft, draw up, compose, put on paper, commit to paper, commit to writing, put in writing, scribble, scrawl, scratch, Formal indite: While he was in prison, he penned letters to many men of influence.
PEP|0|n. 1 vigour, vim (and vigour), spirit, animation, vivacity, energy, verve, zest, fire, sprightliness, life, effervescence, sparkle, ebullience, dash, enthusiasm, brio, ÷lan, Colloq zip, zing: He certainly has a lot of pep for an octogenarian. --v. 2 pep up. stimulate, invigorate, animate, enliven, vitalize, vivify, energize, exhilarate, quicken, arouse, breathe (some) life into, inspire, activate, actuate, fire, cheer up, Colloq buck up, spark, work or fire up, US wind up: After those defeats, the team needed to be pepped up.
PET|0|n. 1 darling, favourite, idol, apple of (one's) eye, Colloq Brit blue-eyed boy, US fair-haired boy: You know that you were always Father's pet. --adj. 2 tame, trained, domesticated: Doesn't the landlord take a dim view of your keeping a pet alligator in the bath? 3 favourite, favoured, preferred, cherished, special, particular; indulged, prized, treasured, precious, dearest, adored, darling: Building the summer-house was Desmond's pet project. Elizabeth's pet pupil is Anne. --v. 4 caress, fondle, stroke, pat; cuddle, nuzzle, nestle, snuggle, Colloq neck, smooch or Australian and New Zealand also smoodge or smooge, Chiefly US and Canadian make out: Small children need to be petted a lot. Two teenagers were petting in the back seat of the car. 5 humour, pamper, favour, baby, coddle, cosset, mollycoddle, cocker, spoil, indulge, dote on: His mother pets him far too much.
PIN|0|n. 1 peg, dowel, bolt, thole, thole-pin, spike, rivet; Brit drawing-pin, US push-pin: The table is held together by wooden pins. We need some more pins for the notice-board. 2 brooch, clip; stickpin, tie-pin, scarf-pin, US tie tack: She is wearing the cameo pin that her mother gave her. I had George's pin made into a brooch. --v. 3 attach, fix, affix, fasten, secure, tack; hold, staple, clip: Let's play 'Pin the tail on the donkey'. Pin these papers together. 4 pin down. a force, make, compel, coerce, constrain, press, Brit pressurize, US pressure: We must pin him down to give his decision by tomorrow. b define, specify, pinpoint, name, identify, determine, name, put or lay one's finger on, home or zero in on, focus on: The doctor was unable to pin down what is wrong with her. c confine, hold (down), fix, immobilize, tie down, constrain: We were pinned down by enemy fire. 5 pin on. blame, hold responsible or accountable, point the finger at, accuse; lay at (someone's) door: They'll never be able to pin the murder on Drayton.
PIT|0|n. 1 hole, excavation, shaft, cavity, mine, mine-shaft, quarry, working, ditch, trench, trough: Pits had been dug for the extraction of gravel. 2 pothole, hollow, depression, dent, indentation, dimple, pock-mark: His face was disfigured by the pits left by teenage acne. 3 abyss, chasm, well, crevasse, crater: We found a bottomless pit that led to the centre of the earth. 4 the pits. awful, terrible, the worst, Slang lousy: That TV show last night was the pits. He thought that going to school was the pits. --v. 5 dent, pock-mark, dig, scar, hollow out, gouge: The salt air has pitted the metal parts of my car. 6 Often, pit against. match, oppose, set against; contrast: Shirley doesn't stand a chance if they pit her against Maria.
PLY|0|n. layer, leaf, thickness, fold: These seams are sewn through two plies of fabric.
POP|0|v. 1 burst, explode, bang, go off: The balloon popped, making me jump. 2 Often, pop in or out or by. visit, stop, call, appear, Colloq drop in, Brit nip in: Guess who popped in to see me on his way to the airport. 3 bulge, protrude, stick out, US bug out: The little boy's eyes popped when they brought in the birthday cake. --n. 4 explosion, bang, report, crack: The Christmas cracker went off with a loud pop. 5 soft drink, soda (water); cola, Brit fizzy drink, lemonade, US soda (pop): A bottle of pop for my daughter and a pint of bitter for me, please.
POT|0|n. 1 pan, saucepan, cauldron, cook-pot, stewpot; kettle: How many politicians have promised the people 'a chicken in every pot'? 2 jackpot, bank, kitty: You will have to add ø5 to the pot to see my hand. 3 pot-belly, paunch, gut, Colloq corporation, beer belly, spare tyre, US bay window: If he exercised more, Patrick wouldn't have such a pot.
PRY|0|v. 1 investigate, ferret about, examine, peer, peek, be inquisitive, inquire or enquire: They pried into her past but found nothing revealing. 2 intrude, meddle, interfere, Colloq poke or stick one's nose in or into, snoop, be nosy, nose about or around, poke about or around: They have no right to pry into my private affairs.
PUB|0|n. public house, alehouse, tavern, inn, bar, cocktail lounge, saloon, taproom, hostelry, Brit saloon or lounge bar, US bar-room, Colloq Brit local, Slang boozer, watering-hole, joint, dive, Chiefly Brit gin-palace, US barrelhouse, gin-mill, honky-tonk: We went down to the pub for a pint and a game of darts.
PUN|0|n. play on words, quip, (bon) mot, witticism, double entendre, Literary equivoque, Technical paronomasia: Dennis made some awful pun on 'nose' and 'knows' that nobody got.
PUP|0|n. puppy, whelp, upstart, whippersnapper, popinjay, cub, jackanapes, show-off, braggart: That young pup had the gall to tell me I was too old to be running the company.
PUT|0|v. 1 place, position, situate, set, lay, station, stand, deposit, rest, settle; locate: Please put all books where they belong. 2 assign, commit, cause, set, consign, subject: I joined the army to fight for my country, and they put me to work peeling potatoes. 3 subject, cause to experience or undergo or suffer, consign, send: He was put to death for his beliefs, not his actions. 4 express, word, phrase; say, utter, write: How did they put it? - 'We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal...' To put it to you straight, shape up or ship out! Can you put that into French? 5 offer, advance, bring forward, present, propose, submit, tender, set before: I put it to you that you have been lying to the court and that you did leave your house that night. 6 bet, gamble, wager, stake, play, chance, risk, hazard: I put two pounds on the horse to win. 7 throw, heave, toss, fling, cast, pitch, bowl, lob, send, shy, shoot, snap, catapult: How far did you say you can put a 10-pound shot? 8 place, assign, attribute, lay, pin, attach, fix: They try to put the blame on me for everything that goes wrong around here. 9 put about. broadcast, publish, make known, publicize, announce, spread about or around: They have been putting about some story linking the two of us romantically. 10 put across or over. make clear, get across, make (something or oneself) understood or understandable, explain, spell out, convey, communicate: She is quite adept at putting across her ideas. 11 put aside. set or lay aside, ignore, disregard, pay no heed to, push aside, shrug off: They put aside their differences and discovered they had much in common. Isn't it time you put aside childish things? 12 put aside or by or away. lay aside or by, set aside; save, store, stow or store or salt or squirrel away, lay away, cache, bank: You ought to put a little money aside for a rainy day. 13 put away. a See 12, above. b jail or Brit also gaol, imprison, incarcerate, Colloq send, jug, confi...
RAG|0|n. 1 tatter, piece, shred, scrap, fragment, bit, Dialect clout: Take a clean rag and dust the bookshelves when you get the chance. 2 newspaper, periodical, magazine, publication, journal: You can't believe anything you read in that rag. 3 rags. Facetious clothes, clothing, attire, dress, garments, Old-fashioned duds: I bought some new rags at the post-Christmas sales. 4 rag trade. garment-industry, clothing business, fashion industry: Peggy has been a model in the rag trade for years. 5 chew the rag. a converse, talk, gossip, chat: We bought a bottle of wine and just sat about chewing the rag all evening. b Brit argue, wrangle: They are constantly chewing the rag over trivial nonsense.
RAM|0|v. 1 jam, force, drive, cram, crowd, pack, compress, stuff, squeeze, thrust, tamp, pound, hammer: We rammed as much filler as we could into the crevices. 2 butt, bump, strike, hit, collide with, dash, crash, slam: Their car rammed into mine in the garage.
RAP|0|v. 1 knock, strike, tap, hit: The policeman rapped smartly at the door with his truncheon. 2 criticize, rebuke, scold, reprimand, rap over the knuckles, Colloq knock, Brit tick off: We were severely rapped for dropping litter on the pavement. 3 converse, talk, chat, gossip, Colloq gab, Slang chew the fat or the rag: That guy was so fascinating - we could rap with him for hours. --n. 4 knock, tap, hit, blow, crack, stroke, cuff, whack, thwack, punch, Colloq belt, clout, Slang sock, slug, biff: The punishment for failing to complete the assignment was a severe rap on the knuckles. 5 conversation, discussion, chat, confabulation, talk, dialogue, discourse, colloquy, Colloq confab, Slang chiefly US and Canadian bull session, rap session: We used to get together for a nice long rap now and then. 6 responsibility, blame; punishment, sentence; charge, accusation, indictment: Why should he have to take the rap for something you did? The witness failed to show up, so Baxter beat the rap.
RAW|0|adj. 1 uncooked, unprepared, fresh: Many vegetables can be eaten raw. 2 unprocessed, untreated, unrefined, unfinished, natural, crude: The raw sugar is shipped to the plant where it is refined. The raw statistics revealed that many women had refused to respond to the questionnaire. 3 new, inexperienced, unseasoned, immature, green, untried, fresh, untrained, unskilled, untested: They sent us raw recruits who had never seen battle. 4 exposed, unprotected, uncovered, open; sore, tender, inflamed, painful, sensitive: When he mentioned her name, it was as if he had touched a raw nerve. 5 chill, chilly, chilling, cold, damp, frigid, freezing, biting, stinging, nippy, nipping, sharp, keen, piercing, penetrating: You should wrap up warmly if you're going out in that raw wind. 6 brutal, frank, candid, blunt, direct, unvarnished, unmollified, unembellished, realistic, honest, plain, unreserved, unrestrained, uninhibited, bluff, straightforward: The producer felt that no domestic audience could stomach a raw depiction of the horrors of war. --n. 7 in the raw. naked, stark naked, undressed, unclothed, nude, in the nude, Brit starkers, Colloq in the buff, in the altogether, in one's birthday suit: For punishment, they made us stand outside, in the freezing cold, in the raw.
RAY|0|n. 1 beam, shaft, bar, streak, pencil, gleam, flash: A single ray from the setting sun illuminated the head of the statue. 2 glimmer, trace, spark, scintilla, flicker: As he had not ben rejected outright, there was still a ray of hope that he might be accepted.
RID|0|v. 1 rid of. deliver from, relieve of, free from or of, rescue, save: What can we do to rid ourselves of that appalling smell? --adj. 2 be or get rid of. banish, exile, eject, expel, dispose of, throw out or away, eliminate, dispense with; refuse, reject, dismiss, shrug off: If she had wanted to be rid of him, she would have divorced him long ago. I am having a spot of bother trying to get rid of my old car: nobody wants to buy it.
RIG|0|v. 1 Often, rig out or up. fit (out or up), equip, set up, outfit, supply, provision, accoutre or US also accouter, caparison, set up, Chiefly Brit kit out: Good Sports was the shop that rigged us out completely for our Himalayan climbing expedition. 2 falsify, manipulate, doctor, juggle, fix, tamper with, fake, Colloq fiddle (with), cook: The accountants rigged the books to make the company appear profitable enough to merit a bank loan. --n. 3 equipment, equipage, gear, tackle, apparatus, outfit, kit, accoutrements or US also accouterments, paraphernalia, appurtenances, Colloq things, stuff: It cost a fortune to transport his diving rig by plane.
RIM|0|n. edge, brim, lip, border, periphery, perimeter: To make a margarita, you first coat the rim of a cocktail glass with coarse salt.
RIP|0|v. 1 tear (apart or asunder), rend, be torn or rent, split, cut (apart): I ripped my trousers on that nail. The paper ripped because you yanked it out of my hand. 2 rip off. a steal, purloin, rob, snatch, pilfer, filch, take, shoplift, Colloq pinch, Brit nick, Slang lift, swipe, US boost, promote: They broke into my car and ripped off my tape deck. b cheat, swindle, trick, fleece, bilk, dupe, deceive; defraud, embezzle, Colloq con, bamboozle, Slang skin, gyp, rook: A smooth couple got ø100 by using the old 'stuffed wallet' trick to rip me off. --n. 3 tear, rent, split, gash, slash; rift, cleft, rupture: The vandals tore a foot-long rip in the top of my new convertible.
ROB|0|v. 1 burgle, loot, rifle, ransack, plunder, depredate, raid; hijack; pillage, sack; US burglarize, Colloq hold up, Slang stick up, rip off: They robbed a jeweller's shop last week. 2 prey upon or on, Colloq hold up, mug, Slang chiefly US stick up, rip off, Chiefly US and New Zealand roll: These hooligans rob old ladies in the street. 3 rob (someone) (of). deprive (of), cheat or swindle (out of), defraud (of), strip (of), fleece (of), bilk (of), victimize, mulct (of), US euchre ((out) of), Colloq rook ((out) of), do or diddle (out of), gyp (out of), Slang Brit nobble (of): I was robbed of my last penny by those confidence men. We were robbed by a taxi driver who offered to change our money. She robbed me of my self-respect.
ROD|0|n. 1 bar, pole, baton, wand, staff, stick, dowel, cane, shaft: Steel rods are used to reinforce the concrete in modern buildings. 2 cane, birch, switch, scourge, lash; punishment, chastisement, castigation, discipline, chastening, correction: As they say, spare the rod and spoil the child.
ROT|0|v. 1 decay, decompose, fester, spoil, go bad or off, be tainted, be ruined, mould, moulder, putrefy; corrode, rust, disintegrate, deteriorate, crumble or go or fall to pieces: When the power went off, all the food in the freezer rotted. The piers holding up the far end of the bridge have all rotted away. 2 waste away, wither away, languish, die, moulder, decline, deteriorate, degenerate, decay, atrophy: Despite repeated appeals for clemency, he's been rotting away in jail all these years. --n. 3 decay, decomposition, mould, putrefaction, putrescence, blight, corrosion, corruption, disintegration, deterioration: Once the rot has set in, the job of revitalization can be overwhelming. 4 (stuff and) nonsense, balderdash, rubbish, bunkum, tommy-rot, twaddle, drivel, hogwash, eyewash, trash, Colloq claptrap, bunk, boloney or boloney, bosh, malarkey, moonshine, poppycock, tosh, Slang crap, bull, codswallop, Brit (a load of (old)) cobblers, Taboo balls, bullshit: He knows nothing whatsoever about linguistics and is just talking a lot of rot.
ROU|0|n. playboy, womanizer, ladies' man, rake, lecher, Lothario, Don Juan, Romeo, Casanova, charmer, flirt, libertine, debauchee, Old-fashioned masher, gay dog, Colloq wolf, lady-killer, dirty old man, Taboo slang gash-hound: Alistair was quite a rou÷ in his youth but has settled down since turning 50.
ROW|0|n. line, rank, tier, bank, string, series, file: A row of trees serves as a wind-break along one side of the farm.
RUB|0|v. 1 massage, knead, stroke; scour, scrub, scrape, abrade, chafe, clean; wipe, smooth, polish, shine, buff, burnish: Rub my back, would you? - Not there, a little lower down. You are not supposed to rub those plastic baths with abrasive cleansers. Before the guests arrived, we rubbed the silver till you could see yourself in it. 2 rub in or on. apply, smooth, smear, spread, put: The ache may be relieved a bit if you rub on some liniment. 3 rub (it or something) in. emphasize, stress, make an issue of, harp on, reiterate, dwell on, hammer away, dramatize: It's bad enough that Caroline did better than I did - you don't have to keep rubbing it in. 4 rub off or out. expunge, erase, remove, delete, cancel, eliminate, eradicate: It's a pity, Peter, that you rubbed out the right reply and wrote in the wrong one. The boys were released on the condition that they would rub the graffiti off the wall. 5 rub off (on). affect, be transferred (to), be communicated or transmitted (to), be passed on or along (to), be imparted to: Your mother and I had hoped that some of our love of music might have rubbed off on you. 6 rub out. murder, kill, execute, slay: The Godfather ordered all witnesses to be rubbed out. 7 rub shoulders with. rub elbows with, associate with, socialize with, mix with, fraternize with, keep company with, consort with, Colloq US run or pal or chum around with: Since getting his knighthood Charles no longer rubs shoulders with the likes of us. 8 rub (someone) (up) the wrong way. annoy, irritate, irk, anger, provoke, go against the grain, Colloq bug, get under one's or someone's skin, peeve: I don't know what it is about Underbridge, but every time we meet he manages to rub me up the wrong way. --n. 9 wipe, stroke, rubbing: You will have to give that stain a good rub to make it come out. 10 massage, rub-down: After exercising, Jane always has an alcohol rub. 11 the rub. the or a catch or hitch or snag or hindrance or set-back, the or an obstacle or impediment, the ...
RUN|0|v. 1 sprint, race, scamper, scurry, scud, dart, bolt, dash, flit, tear (along), scoot, scuttle, zip, whiz or whizz, gallop, jog, trot, lope; rush, hurry (up), hasten, scramble, hustle, step lively, hop (to) it, step on it, put on some speed, Archaic hie, Colloq get a move on, hoof it, leg it, hotfoot (it), stir one's stumps, Brit hare, US step on the gas, hump (it), Slang get cracking, US get the lead out (of one's pants or taboo ass), Chiefly US get a wiggle on: If you run, you might catch her before she gets on the train. 2 run away or off, flee, escape, take flight, take to one's heels, bolt, decamp, make off, clear out, show a clean pair of heels, abscond, cut and run, (beat a (hasty)) retreat, retire, make a getaway, (make a) run for it, Colloq beat it, scram, skedaddle, take off, skip (out), take French leave, fly the coop, Slang head for the hills, Brit scarper, do a bunk, US and Canadian take a (run-out) powder, lam out of (somewhere), take it or go on the lam, US vamoose: The minute the enemy appeared, the entire troop ran. Cavendish ran, hoping the police wouldn't catch him. 3 go, cover, pass over, sprint, race: He ran the mile in just under four minutes. 4 wander, rove, roam, meander, drift: Some farmers allow their animals to run free, rather than penning them up. 5 Often, run for. compete (for), be a candidate (for), vie, struggle, contend, fight (for), stand (for): As she has already said she would not stand again, I doubt that she will run for re-election in the council elections. 6 pass, flow, pour, stream, flood, gush, spill, dribble, spurt, issue, move, trickle, seep, discharge, cascade, spout: You can see where the rainwater has run down this crack in the roof and into the room below. 7 flow, diffuse: The colour ran when he washed his red underwear with some white shirts in very hot water. 8 melt, liquefy, dissolve, fuse: It was so hot that the icing on top of the cake began to melt and run down the sides. 9 keep, maintain, support, sustain, manag...
RUT|0|n. 1 groove, furrow, wheel-mark, track, trough: In the winter the ruts in the lane fill with water and freeze, making driving difficult. 2 pattern, habit, routine, groove, grind, treadmill, dead end, Colloq rat race: After 27 years as a horse groom, I'm beginning to feel I'm stuck in a rut.
SAD|0|adj. 1 unhappy, melancholy, downcast, dejected, depressed, low, sorrowful, gloomy, morose, glum, lugubrious, mournful, heartsick, crestfallen, chap-fallen, disheartened, downhearted, blue, despondent, broken-hearted, heartbroken, woebegone, miserable, wretched: Danny was so sad when his dog died that he wept for a week. 2 depressing, gloomy, disheartening, dreary, dismal, funereal, sombre, lugubrious, saddening, heartbreaking, bleak, distressing, dispiriting, calamitous: It was a sad day for all of us here when the England team lost the semifinal. 3 unfortunate, unsatisfactory, awful, bad, shabby, dirty, lamentable, miserable, sorry, wretched, pathetic, pitiful, pitiable, deplorable, terrible, Colloq lousy, rotten: After two weeks under water, the sofa was in pretty sad shape.
SAG|0|v. 1 droop, sink, slump, bend, dip; swag, bag: The board sagged precariously under his weight. Without a breath stirring, the banners sagged in the humid air. 2 drop, decrease, decline, go or come down, fall, slide, slip, weaken, slump, descend, diminish, lessen, droop, subside, flag, falter, wilt: The value of the dollar sagged in world markets today. --n. 3 sagging, drop, droop, sinking, sinkage, subsidence, dip; reduction, decrease, decline, fall, slide, weakening, slump, lessening, flagging, faltering: If you stand over here you can see a definite sag in the roof. The sag in profits was attributed to a poor response to the new model.
SAP|0|n. 1 (vital) juice or fluid, bodily or US also body fluid, lifeblood, essence, Literary ichor: He apostrophized about how the sap of youth had shrunk from his veins. 2 fool, idiot, nincompoop, ninny, ninny-hammer, simpleton, ignoramus, nitwit, dim-wit, dunce, ass; dupe, gull, US thimble-wit; Colloq chump, drip, Brit (right) charlie, noddy, noodle, wet, Chiefly Brit twit, Slang patsy, sucker, (easy) mark, pushover, sap-head, Brit muggins, US schnook, schlemiel or schlemihl or shlemiel, fall guy: You certainly were a sap to fall for that old line! --v. 3 bleed, drain, draw, tap, rob, milk: I could feel the strength being sapped from my body.
SAW|0|n. proverb, maxim, (old) saying, aphorism, apophthegm or apothegm, axiom, adage, epigram, gnome; slogan, motto, catchword, catch-phrase, byword; dictum, platitude, truism, clich÷, commonplace: She always quoted to him the old saw, 'A fool and his mother are soon parted'.
SAY|0|v. 1 state, affirm, declare, maintain, hold, aver, remark, assert, claim, asseverate, announce: She said that I had to go at once, and I said, 'I shall never leave you!' 2 assert, allege, report, mention, rumour, reveal, bruit about, disclose, divulge, bring to light, put about, noise abroad, suggest, hint, whisper: It was said that spies had already infiltrated the party. 3 pronounce, articulate, utter; phrase, rephrase, translate: How do you say gemâtlich? How do you say it in English? 4 tell, put, express, verbalize, communicate, explain, reveal, bring up, break, impart: I don't quite know how to say this, Harry, but you have bad breath. 5 reply, respond, answer: What have you to say to her allegation that it is all your fault? 6 guess, estimate, conjecture, venture, judge, imagine, believe, think: I'd say you look about 60 years old. 7 mean or intend or try to say, think, contemplate, imply, suggest: Are you saying that you would steal if you had the opportunity? 8 predict, prognosticate, foretell: The newspaper says that shares will go down. 9 signify, denote, symbolize, communicate, indicate, convey, suggest, imply, mean: What does a red light say to you? 10 order, require, demand, bid, stipulate, command, give the word: If I say that you are to go, then you go - and quickly. 11 deliver, utter, speak: Say your lines and exit stage left without waiting for a reply. --n. 12 voice, authority, influence, power, weight, sway, clout: Does she have that much say about how the money should be spent? 13 turn, chance, opportunity, vote: You've had your say, now let's hear from Ackroyd. --adv. 14 approximately, about, roughly, circa, nearly: The snake was, say, twenty feet long. 15 for example, for instance, as or for an illustration, eg or US e.g.: Take any novel, say, Wuthering Heights, and analyse the characters.
SEA|0|n. 1 ocean, deep blue sea, high seas, Literary (briny) deep, (bounding) main, Neptune's or Poseidon's kingdom or domain, Nautical blue water, Davy Jones's locker, Colloq briny, drink, pond (= 'Atlantic Ocean'): For years he sailed the seas in search of adventure. 2 swell, breaker, wave: As the wind increased, huge seas began to wash over the boat. 3 plethora, quantity, abundance, surfeit, profusion, flood, multitude, spate, legion, mass, Colloq lot(s), heap(s), pile(s), ton(s), mountain(s), load(s), oodles, gobs, scads: Hamlet's sea of troubles was nothing compared to mine if this book isn't completed soon! 4 (all) at sea. confused, disoriented, at sixes and sevens, bewildered, perplexed, baffled, mystified, lost, adrift: They were clearly not expecting her and were completely at sea as to what to do.
SEE|0|v. 1 perceive, note, notice, mark, spot, watch, witness, recognize, behold, discern, distinguish, observe, look at, regard, sight, catch sight of, descry, espy, spy, make out, look upon, view, glimpse, catch a glimpse of, Slang get a load of, US glom: I saw him buy a bottle of whisky. We saw two yellow-bellied sapsuckers in one day! Can you see the sea from your suite? Did you see the Houses of Parliament when you were in London? 2 understand, comprehend, apprehend, perceive, appreciate, fathom, grasp, take in, realize, know, be aware or conscious of, get the idea or meaning of, Colloq dig, get, get the drift or the hang of: I see what you are saying, but I don't agree. After her speech, I saw Gladys in a new light. 3 foresee, foretell, imagine, envisage, envision, visualize, picture, divine, conceive (of), dream of, conjure up, accept: I can see a day when warming from the greenhouse effect will make the sea level rise. Ted said he can't see you as a married man. 4 determine, ascertain, find out, investigate, discover, learn: See if the bakery has any macaroons. I'll see what she thinks. 5 Often, see to it. ensure, assure, make sure or certain, mind, be vigilant: It's cold outside, so see that you dress warmly. 6 accompany, escort, show, lead, conduct, usher, take, convoy, bring, walk, drive: I was seeing Nellie home from a soir÷e at Aunt Dinah's. 7 go out with, socialize with, keep company with, consort with, associate with; court, woo; Colloq go steady with, Chiefly US date: Are you still seeing that boy you met at the school dance? 8 make up one's mind, think over, mull over, consider, ponder (on or over), contemplate, decide, reflect (on), meditate (on or over or about), ruminate (on or over), brood over: Mother said she'd see whether I could go. Then I asked father, and he said he'd see. 9 receive, meet (with), talk or speak with, confer with, consult (with), have a word with, sit down with, visit with, interview; welcome, greet: The ambassador will see you n...
SET|0|v. 1 set down, place, put, situate, locate, site, plant, position, station, stand, lay, install or instal, lodge, mount, park, deposit, plump, drop, plunk or plonk (down): Please set that blue box over here. 2 go down, sink, decline, subside: The sun is setting. 3 jell or gel, congeal, freeze, solidify, stiffen, harden, clot, coagulate, thicken, cake: The concrete takes a long time to set in this weather. 4 establish, fix, fasten on, appoint: The date of the wedding has been set for May 23rd. 5 focus on, home or zero in on, pinpoint, pin down: When Ivor sets his mind on doing something, it usually gets done. 6 adjust, regulate, turn, synchronize, fix, calibrate, coordinate: Set your watches to Greenwich Mean Time. Set the counter back to zero. 7 present, introduce, establish, determine, stipulate, lay down, define, indicate, designate, specify; set or mark off, delineate: Who set the pattern for such behaviour? You'll have to set the rules. 8 prepare, set up, concoct, lay, arrange, fix: I think we ought to set a trap for the burglar. 9 set forth, propound, present, devise, work out or up, make up, select, choose, decide, settle, establish: Who is going to set the questions for the examination? 10 arrange, lay, spread: If you set the table, I'll serve dinner. 11 adjust, move, tilt, fix, place, position, lodge: He set his hat at a jaunty angle and strode out of the restaurant. 12 set about. a get or make ready, start, begin, get to work, set in motion, get under way, start the ball rolling, break the ice, undertake, launch, tackle, address oneself to, enter upon, Colloq get cracking: It's time you set about deciding what you want to do for a living. b attack, assail, assault, beat up: The gang set about him with clubs. 13 set against. a compare, evaluate, rate, balance, weigh, juxtapose, contrast: If you set his assets against his liabilities, he comes off pretty well. b antagonize, set at odds, alienate, divide, disunite: They succeeded in setting brother against bro...
SEW|0|v. sew up, stitch, darn, mend, repair; sew on, attach, fasten; tack, baste, hem: Would you sew up a hole in my sweater for me and, while you're at it, would you mind sewing a button on my shirt?
SEX|0|n. 1 gender: It is difficult to determine the sex of some of the lower animals. 2 sexual intercourse or relations, coitus, coition, mating, copulation, (sexual) congress or union, intimacy, lovemaking, making love, coupling, Colloq making out, going to bed, shacking up, Slang having it away, Taboo slang screwing, shafting, shagging, fucking, Chiefly Brit bonking: They feel that there is too much sex and violence on television these days.
SHY|0|adj. 1 diffident, coy, bashful, retiring, withdrawn, withdrawing, reserved, timid, meek, modest, sheepish, unconfident, self-conscious, introverted, nervous, apprehensive, timorous, Rare verecund: Casey is quite shy and you have to draw him out gently. 2 timorous, cautious, wary, chary, leery, guarded, afraid, fearful, frightened, anxious, worried, suspicious, distrustful, cowardly, craven, uncourageous: The local people are shy of anyone or anything unfamiliar. 3 missing, lacking, deficient in, short of: The shipment is shy a few dozen shoelaces we ordered. --adv. 4 fight shy of. avoid, be unwilling or reluctant or averse or loath or loth or disinclined or not disposed; be wary or cautious or watchful: The children fight shy of talking to strangers.
SIN|0|n. 1 trespass, transgression, offence, wrong, impiety, misdeed, profanation, desecration, iniquity, evil, devilry, sacrilege, crime, infraction, misdeed, dereliction, infringement, violation, misdemeanour, fault, foible, peccadillo: How many sins have been committed in the name of righteousness! It's a sin to tell a lie. The seven deadly sins are anger, covetousness, envy, gluttony, lust, pride, and sloth. 2 wickedness, sinfulness, vice, corruption, ungodliness, badness, evil, wrongfulness, iniquity, iniquitousness, immorality, depravity, impiety, irreverence, impiousness, sacrilege: His brother Edmund was conceived in sin, and sin ruled his entire life. --v. 3 transgress, offend, fall (from grace), lapse, go wrong, stray, go astray, err, Biblical or archaic trespass: Strictly speaking, we can sin only against God.
SIP|0|v. 1 taste, sample, sup: She was sitting on a bar stool, sipping a cocktail. --n. 2 taste, sample, soupúon, drop, bit, swallow, mouthful, spoonful, thimbleful, nip, dram, Colloq swig: She took a sip, savoured it, then turned to me with a smile.
SIT|0|v. 1 be seated, settle, sit down, take a seat, rest, Colloq take the weight or a load off one's feet: Come in and sit with me for a while. If you sit on that chair it will break. 2 hold a session, be in session, assemble, meet, convene; gather, get together: The Supreme Court of the United States will be sitting next week. 3 Often, sit on. have or hold or occupy a seat (on), participate (in), be a member (of): Kathy sits on the board of directors. 4 remain, stay, lie, rest; relax, mark time, abide, dwell: Let the dough sit a while to rise. Anita sat in Vienna awaiting her instructions. 5 seat, contain, hold, accommodate, have seats or seating for, have room or space or capacity for seating: The auditorium sits only 600. 6 sit in. a Often, sit in on. play, join (in), participate (in), take part (in); observe, watch: Mind if I sit in on your poker game? We invited Mary Lou to sit in during our discussion. b substitute, fill in, stand in, double, Colloq cover, sub, US pinch-hit: Mary Lou often sat in for our pianist if he had another gig. 7 sit out. wait out, outwait, outstay, outlast, outlive, last through, live through: Will sat out endless dances. He sat out the whole evening merely waiting to walk home with Lily. 8 sit tight. wait, hang back, hold back, be patient, bide (one's) time, play a waiting game, take no action, delay, temporize, Colloq hold (one's) horses: Just sit tight till you hear from them - don't jump the gun. 9 sit up. awaken, pay attention, notice, become alert or interested or concerned: Jennie's performance in the hurdles made many track coaches sit up. 10 sit (with). Often, sit well or right (with). agree with, be agreeable to; seem, appear, look: The way Ashton handled the matter did not sit well with the directors.
SKY|0|n. 1 heaven(s), skies, arch or vault of heaven, firmament, (wild) blue (yonder), ether, Archaic or literary welkin, empyrean, azure: The dour, overcast sky gave the bleak moor a chilling sense of foreboding. 2 to the skies. overly, excessively, extravagantly, fulsomely, profusely, inordinately, highly: If I praise him to the skies people will get the idea that I benefit from his success.
SLY|0|adj. 1 cunning, artful, crafty, clever, wily, guileful, underhand(ed), deceitful, treacherous, foxy, scheming, plotting, designing, conniving, furtive, shrewd, sneaky, stealthy, insidious, devious, disingenuous, tricky, shifty, sharp, canny, Colloq shady: It was devilishly sly of him to manoeuvre you into paying for his party. 2 impish, elfish, roguish, mischievous, puckish, devilish, scampish, naughty, arch, waggish: Even as he was flirting with Allison he was giving Antonia sly, conspiratorial winks. --n. 3 on the sly. slyly or slily, quietly, surreptitiously, covertly, stealthily, furtively, sneakily, underhandedly, clandestinely, Colloq on the q.t. or Q.T., on the side: Although her parents had forbidden her to see him again, Antonia continued to meet Kevin on the sly.
SOB|0|v. cry, weep, blubber, shed tears, snivel, whimper, sniff, snuffle, pule, wail, moan, boohoo, mewl, pule, bawl, howl, yowl: The poor, lonely child sobbed quietly.
SOW|0|v. seed, disseminate, broadcast, plant: The grand vizier sowed the seeds of dissension amongst the subjects of the caliph.
SPY|0|n. 1 double agent, foreign agent, secret(-service) agent, intelligence agent, undercover agent, mole, fifth-columnist, CIA man or woman or agent, MI5 or MI6 man or woman or agent; informer, informant, Colloq mole, Slang stool-pigeon, stoolie, fink, ratfink: In those days, everyone was a spy and you could trust no one. --v. 2 Usually, spy on or upon. follow, shadow, trail, watch, observe, reconnoitre, keep under surveillance, US surveil, Colloq tail, check out, case: Why should anyone from a foreign government be spying on my mother? 3 espy, glimpse, spot, catch sight or a glimpse of, descry, note, notice, see, discern: I spied him getting into a yellow convertible.
SUE|0|v. 1 proceed or move or act (against), take (legal) action or bring suit or prefer charges (against); summon(s), charge, accuse: He threatened to sue. They are suing him for the injuries they sustained. 2 petition, beg, plead, entreat, pray, request, solicit, apply, beseech, implore, supplicate: After five years of constant warfare, the country is suing for peace.
SUM|0|n. 1 total, aggregate, grand total, sum total, whole, totality; amount, quantity: The sum of money found in the satchel was not revealed by the police. He would give the neighbourhood children small sums to spend on sweets. --v. 2 sum up. a recapitulate, summarize, encapsulate, synopsize, digest, abridge, condense, consolidate, epitomize, review: He summed up by reminding the children not to accept gifts from strangers. b reckon, add up, calculate, total, tot up, measure (up), take the measure of: They summed up their chances of escaping. c estimate, evaluate, size up, assess: She had summed him up the minute she saw him.
SUN|0|n. 1 (old) Sol, Helios, Phoebus (Apollo), Ra, Sunna, day-star: Many early cultures worshipped the sun. --v. 2 tan, suntan, sunbathe, bask, bake, brown, bronze: They spent their holidays sunning themselves on the beach.
TAB|0|n. 1 flap, tag, loop, ticket, sticker, label, flag, lappet, strap, handle: Pull on the red tab and the life jacket inflates automatically. 2 charge, bill, account, reckoning, Chiefly US check: They left me to pick up the tab at the restaurant for everyone.
TAG|0|n. 1 label, name or price tag, mark, marker, tab, ticket, sticker, stub, docket: The tag was clearly marked with a bar-code. 2 name, epithet, label, designation, title, appellation, nickname, Slang handle, moniker: Called 'Eddie the dip', he got his tag 'the dip' because he's a pickpocket. --v. 3 label, mark, ticket, identify, earmark: Please tag all these cartons so we'll know what's in them without opening them. 4 label, name, call, dub, nickname, style, entitle, christen, baptize: I have already said that Eddie was tagged 'the dip' because he was a pickpocket. 5 tag along. follow, trail (along) after, tail, shadow, attend, accompany, drag along with or after: Does your little brother have to tag along wherever we go?
TAP|0|v. 1 rap, knock, dab, strike, peck; drum, beat: Must you continually tap on the table with that blasted pencil?! --n. 2 rap, knock, dab, strike, peck, pat; tapping, tap-tap, rapping, knocking, pecking, beat, beating, patter, pattering: I felt a tap on my shoulder. The tap, tap, tap of the dripping water was driving me mad.
TAX|0|n. 1 levy, impost, duty, tariff, assessment, tribute, toll, excise, customs, charge, contribution, Archaic scot, tithe, Brit octroi, cess, rate(s), dues: Most people try to pay the lowest taxes they can get away with. 2 onus, burden, weight, load, encumbrance, strain, pressure: The admission of fifty new children put a heavy tax on the school's resources. --v. 3 assess, exact, demand, charge, impose or levy a tax (on), Archaic tithe: If the government doesn't tax citizens, where will the money come from? 4 burden, strain, put a strain on, try; load, overload, stretch, exhaust; encumber, weigh down, saddle, Brit pressurize, US pressure: This misbehaviour is really taxing my patience. Our meagre resources were taxed to the limit. Mother was taxed with the responsibility of caring for us.
TIE|0|v. 1 bind, fasten, make fast, tie up, lash, secure, truss, attach, tether, rope, chain, moor; connect, join, knot, link, couple, splice, unite: He keeps a vicious dog tied to a stake in his garden. Tie the ends of the rope together. 2 bind, truss (up), tie up, lash, pinion, restrict, confine, restrain; limit, tie down, curtail, curb, cramp, hamper, hinder: His hands are tied behind his back. According to the terms of the agreement, my hands are tied and I can do nothing. 3 connect, associate, unite, join, link, bind (up), affiliate, ally, league, team (up): Our business interests are tied to those of the major banks. 4 equal, even, be equal or even (with), match, be neck and neck (with): We tied them for first place. Yesterday, we were tied for second. 5 tie down. a clinch, secure, confirm, Colloq nail down: I tied down the PBT contract this morning. b restrict, restrain, constrain, confine, curtail: He won't marry because he doesn't want to feel tied down. 6 tie in. a be consistent, make sense, correspond, coincide, fit (in), be logical, coordinate: His alibi ties in with the witness's testimony. b relate, connect, link, associate, coordinate: They cleverly tie in concern for the environment with their product. 7 tie up. a occupy, engage, (keep) busy: This affair will tie me up till Tuesday. b use, take up, encroach on, impose on: I won't tie up your time any longer. c stop, halt, bring to a standstill: The traffic was tied up for hours. d commit, oblige, obligate, bind: We have tied up all their output for a year. e See 1, above. f See 2, above. --n. 8 link, fastening, bond, band, connection, tie-up, relationship, affiliation, liaison, involvement, entanglement: Isn't there some tie between those two companies? 9 string, cord, lace, rope, thong, ribbon, band, ligature, shoelace, line, leash, stop: The tie of her dressing-gown came loose. 10 equality, dead heat, deadlock, draw, stalemate: When there is a tie, the game ought to go into 'sudden death' overtime. 11 cr...
TIP|0|n. 1 end, extremity, peak, apex, summit, vertex, cap, top, pinnacle, tiptop, crown, head, terminal, ferrule or ferule, finial, nib or neb, point: The tip of the mountain showed above the clouds. He broke off the tip of the billiard cue. --v. 2 top, cap, crown, surmount: The foil is tipped with a rubber button to prevent injury. n. 1 gratuity, baksheesh, pourboire, douceur, lagniappe or lagnappe, present, gift, Colloq little something: That waiter didn't deserve a tip. 2 tip-off, (inside) information, warning, advice, suggestion, clue, hint, pointer, forecast, prediction, Colloq Brit gen: Louie had a tip that the police were coming. Her tip was 'Flapdoodle' to win the fifth race. --v. 3 reward: Why did you tip the barmaid? 4 Usually, tip off. advise, warn, caution, alert, forewarn, notify, let (someone) know, Colloq let (someone) in on: The thieves were tipped off and never arrived.
TOP|0|n. 1 summit, apex, peak, acme, crest, head, pinnacle, vertex, zenith, meridian, crown, culmination, high point, height, apogee: They reached the top of the mountain at dawn. For a change, I should like to be at the top looking down. Samantha remains at the top of her profession. 2 lid, cover, cap, covering, stopper, cork: Put the top back on the bottle when you're through. --v. 3 surpass, better, best, outstrip, exceed, outdo, excel, beat, transcend: It would be impossible to top some of his achievements. 4 surmount, cover, cap, crown, tip; finish, complete, garnish: The entire concoction was topped by a maraschino cherry. 5 trim, crop, lop or cut off, clip, prune, nip, pinch (back): All the trees in this area have been topped to let in more sunlight. 6 scale, climb, ascend, surmount: The party topped Annapurna the next day. 7 top up. fill (up), refresh, refill, replenish, US freshen (up): He asked the barman to top up our drinks. --adj. 8 best, greatest, foremost, leading, pre-eminent, eminent, first, first-rate, principal, prime, finest, choicest, topmost; excellent, superior, superb, top-drawer, top-grade, top-notch, supreme, peerless, unequalled, incomparable, Colloq crack, ace, A-1 or A-one: Is he the top man in his field? She is a top economics adviser to the government. 9 uppermost, topmost, highest: The top fruit is the best.
TOT|0|n. child, toddler, infant, baby: Can you recall when you were a tiny tot?
TOW|0|v. pull, drag, draw, haul, lug, trail, tug, trawl: The boat was towing a long purse seine. I arrived just as the police were towing away my car.
TOY|0|n. 1 plaything: Whenever he visited, Uncle Jed brought toys for the children. 2 trifle, trinket, bauble, gewgaw, gimcrack, knick-knack, bagatelle, kickshaw, bit of frippery: After marrying her, he treated her as a rich man's toy. --v. 3 Usually, toy with. trifle (with), dally (with), play (with), sport (with), fool (with), fiddle (with), tinker (with): He kept toying with his watch chain. 4 Usually, toy with. flirt (with), dally (with), dilly-dally (with), play (with), deal with carelessly, amuse oneself with: The cad was only toying with her affections. --adj. 5 miniature, tiny, diminutive, small, dwarf: She breeds toy poodles. 6 imitation, fake, phoney or US also phony, simulated, artificial: This is only a toy watch and doesn't work.
TRY|0|v. 1 attempt, endeavour, essay, seek, undertake, venture, strive, struggle, make an effort, try (one's) hand at, Colloq have a stab or go or whack (at), take a shot or crack (at): He tried to help me with my homework. 2 test, try out, prove, evaluate, examine, inspect, check out, sample, appraise, assay, look over, analyse, scrutinize, assess, judge: I'll try your way of solving the problem. You won't know if it works till you try it. 3 test, prove, strain, tax: You are trying my patience with your silly questions. 4 hear, sit on, adjudicate, judge, adjudge: There are three more cases to try this month. --n. 5 attempt, endeavour, essay, undertaking, venture, struggle, effort, turn, Colloq go, stab, whack, fling, shot, crack: You have three tries to pin the tail on the donkey.
TUG|0|v. 1 pull, tow, yank, jerk, draw, drag, haul, wrench: The boy was tugging a little puppy along on a lead. --n. 2 pull, tow, yank, jerk, drag, haul, wrench: I gave a tug and the doorknob came away in my hand.
USE|0|v. 1 employ, make use of, put into practice or operation, practise, utilize, exercise, bring into play, have recourse to, resort to, put or press into service, put to use, avail (oneself) of; say, utter, speak: If you use a hammer you might damage the surface. Why do you have to use bad language? 2 capitalize on, turn to account, profit by or from, exploit, utilize, make use of, take advantage of, manipulate, manoeuvre, handle, abuse, misuse, play, work: She used her smile to lure men on. Dorothy never forgave Conrad for the way he used her and her contacts to get his job. 3 consume, eat, drink, smoke, take, partake of, ingest, inject, Slang shoot (up): He has never used a habit-forming substance. 4 consume, buy, purchase, employ, utilize: Which kind of detergent do you use? 5 use up. consume, exhaust, expend, run through, run out of, deplete; waste, squander, fritter away, pour down the drain, throw away: He used up all the toothpaste. She used up her entire inheritance gambling. --n. 6 usage, application, employment, utilization; using: The use of unleaded fuel is recommended. 7 function, utility, application; advantage, benefit, good, service, interest, profit, avail: What's the use of a radio that doesn't work? 8 wear (and tear), utilization, treatment, usage, handling: Long use has worn the workbench smooth. 9 usability, usefulness, utility, utilization, usage, function, functioning, service(s), serviceability, power: He lost the use of his right arm in an accident at work. 10 licence, permission, permit, privilege: We paid a high fee for the use of this parking space. 11 consumption, purchases, buying, acquisition: The use of cigarettes has diminished in the last decade. 12 advantage, purpose, point, end, object, reason, basis, ground: I have tried to help him overcome his habit, but what's the use? Many are the uses of adversity. 13 demand, need, necessity, urgency, exigency: The world has as much use for art as for engineering. 14 See usage, 1, above. 15 hav...
VET|0|v. examine, review, investigate, scrutinize, inspect, check (out), look over, scan; validate, authenticate; Colloq give (something or someone) the once-over, size up: We engaged an expert to vet the definitions of culinary terms for the new dictionary.
VIE|0|v. compete, contend, struggle, strive: The brothers constantly vied for their father's affection.
VOW|0|v. 1 swear, pledge, promise, assure, state, declare, give (one's) (solemn) word (of honour): I vowed to return after the war to care for those who had helped me escape. --n. 2 oath, pledge, promise, agreement; (solemn) word (of honour): She will keep her vow, you may be certain.
WAD|0|n. 1 pad, mass, lump, clod, ball, plug, chunk, hunk, block, pack: He had a wad of cotton wool in each ear. 2 roll, pocketful, heap, quantity, load, Colloq US bankroll: Over coffee James handed him a wad of notes.
WAG|0|v. 1 wave, waggle, oscillate, fluctuate, sway, undulate, flutter, flap, flip, flicker, shake, vibrate, quiver, nod, rock, dance, wobble, bob, bobble, waver, Rare vellicate: Misty's tail wagged as I approached the house. --n. 2 wave, waggle, oscillation, fluctuation, sway, undulation, flutter, vellication, flap, flip, flicker, shake, vibration, quiver, nod, wobble, bobble, waver: The dying animal recognized me and gave a feeble wag of her tail.
WAN|0|adj. 1 white, sickly, pale, pallid, livid, pasty, ashen, bloodless, waxen, whey-faced, sallow, colourless, deathly, ghostly, ghastly, cadaverous: I almost wept at seeing the child's wan face against the pillow. 2 weary, weak, hollow, feeble, frail, ineffectual, sorry, pitiful: She offered no more than a wan smile in response to questions about her family.
WAR|0|n. 1 warfare, combat, conflict, fighting, clash, hostilities, battle, struggle, engagement, encounter, strife, contention: The war, in which several millions died, lasted six years. 2 at war. fighting, battling, in combat, in conflict; in disagreement, in dispute, in contention, struggling, antagonistic, at daggers drawn: They are at war because an ambassador refused to retract some silly insult. --v. 3 do battle or fight or struggle or (engage in) combat with or against, make or wage war with or against, take up arms or strive or campaign or tilt against, cross swords or contend or joust with: We must continue to war against the forces of evil.
WAY|0|n. 1 manner, method, mode, fashion, means, system, course (of action), procedure, approach, scheme, technique, practice, modus operandi, Colloq MO (= 'modus operandi'): That's no way to talk to your mother! We have ways of making you talk. Is that any way to treat a lady?! It's the wrong way to deal with the problem. 2 manner, spirit, feeling, sense, character, approach, personality, temperament, disposition, modus vivendi (= 'lifestyle'), nature, technique, style, conduct, habit, behaviour pattern, custom: He has such a pleasant way about him. Lucinda certainly has a way with children and dogs. You city people may not approve of our down-to-earth country ways. 3 path, road, street, avenue, course, route, trail, direction: Show me the way to go home. The way to the village lies through dark woods. 4 distance; route, trail, course, road: You've come a long way since we last met. 5 progress, passage, advance, headway; speed, velocity, motion, (forward) movement: We made our way to the front of the crowd. Who has the right of way at the crossing? The tide was too strong for us to get any way on. 6 aspect, respect, particular, detail, point, sense, feature: In certain ways, you remind me of Attila the Hun. 7 clearance, pathway, avenue, scope, freedom, opportunity: When you hear a siren, drive to the side and give way. Make way for the Lord High Executioner! 8 condition, situation: She prefers the prissy 'in a family way' to the straightforward 'pregnant' and the vulgar 'have a bun in the oven'. I saw Luke yesterday and he was really in a bad way. 9 by the way. incidentally, moreover, by the by, parenthetically: By the way, have I told you how beautiful you look tonight? 10 by way of. a via, through, by means of: We drove from London to Oxford by way of Reading. b (functioning) as, in (the) way of, in the capacity of, equivalent to, more or less, something like: Richard is by way of being an expert on eccentric behaviour. 11 give way. a collapse, break (down), fail, cave...
WEB|0|n. spider's web, cobweb; net, network, entanglement, snare, trap: Don't you just hate getting those webs in your hair? She became entangled in a web of deception.
WED|0|v. 1 marry, espouse, get married, become husband and wife, say or take (one's) (marriage) vows, join or unite in holy wedlock or matrimony; lead down the aisle, lead to the altar, Archaic wive; Colloq tie the knot, get hitched, get spliced: They were wed on the fourth of July, 1921. That was when Harry wed Annabel. 2 combine, unite, ally, marry, blend, merge, join, mingle, intermingle, commingle, coalesce, mix, intermix, amalgamate, compound, alloy, fuse, homogenize: As a chef, he is extremely fortunate to be able to wed business to pleasure.
WEE|0|adj. 1 tiny, small, diminutive, little, minuscule, midget, minute, miniature, Lilliputian, microscopic, Colloq itty-bitty, itsy-bitsy, teeny(-weeny), teensy(-weensy): Johnny caught his wee little finger in the door. 2 unimportant, insignificant, trivial, little, puny: It was only a wee thing, of no interest to anyone but me.
WET|0|adj. 1 moist, moistened, damp, dampened, soaked, soaking, sopping, wringing, dripping, sodden, soppy, saturated, drenched: During the rainy season, the ground is far too wet for planting. 2 rainy, raining, teeming, pouring, drizzling, showery: We have had a very wet spring this year. 3 feeble, weak, irresolute, effet, namby-pamby, foolish, ineffectual, ineffective, spineless, timorous, cowardly: She considered some of her colleagues too wet to take the tough action needed. --n. 4 moisture, water, wetness, dampness, damp, humidity, liquid: The wet stood out on his forehead. 5 rain, wetness, mist, dew, fog, damp, humidity: Come in out of the wet, and warm yourself by the fire. 6 milksop, softie or softy, lightweight, Colloq drip, loser, Brit weed, Slang wimp, US weak sister: Why is he such a wet about standing up for his rights?
WIN|0|v. 1 come (in or out) first, carry the day, conquer, overcome; carry off (the palm), finish first (in), achieve first place (in), triumph (in), be victorious (in), be the victor (in), gain a victory (in), prevail (in), succeed (in), take first prize (in), Colloq bring home the bacon: Which team is more likely to win today? We seem to have won the battle but not the war. 2 gain, carry off or away, attain, acquire, get, obtain, secure, procure, receive, collect, net, bag, earn, realize, pick up, glean: Look at all those trophies Gillian has won playing golf! 3 win over. influence, sway, incline, persuade, charm, prevail upon, convert, induce, bring round or around, convince: Don't think that Gilbert can be won over without a strong argument. --n. 4 victory, conquest, triumph, success: So far this season we have recorded six wins and one loss for the Surrey Scouts.
WIT|0|n. 1 intelligence, brains, mind, (common) sense, judgement, understanding, discernment, wisdom, sagacity, insight, astuteness, cleverness, Slang savvy: He hasn't the wit to know when he's being insulted. 2 humour, drollery, levity, joking, repartee, raillery, facetiousness, waggishness, badinage, repartee, jocularity, wordplay, paronomasia; amusement, entertainment: Some say that sarcasm is the lowest form of wit. 3 comedian, comedienne, humorist, comic, wag, joker, farceur, farceuse, punster, madcap, zany; parodist, satirist, caricaturist; Colloq pundit, card, character: In the face of such a devastating remark, even the club wit was struck dumb.
WOE|0|n. trouble, hardship, adversity, misery, anguish, tribulation, calamity, trial, wretchedness, grief, unhappiness, desolation, dolour, melancholy, gloom, depression, sadness, disconsolateness, misfortune, affliction, sorrow, distress: How much more woe could beset one small family?
WRY|0|adj. 1 distorted, contorted, twisted, lopsided, deformed, crooked, aslant, one-sided, askew, bent, tilted, off-centre: He is afflicted by a rheumatic disorder, which gives his neck a wry appearance. 2 dry, droll, witty, sardonic, sarcastic, ironic(al), amusing; perverse, fey; Scots pawky: Bill has a wry sense of humour that does not appeal to everyone.
YAP|0|v. 1 bark, yelp: Their dog was yapping away all night. 2 gabble, babble, blither or blather, chatter, jabber, tattle, prattle, prate, Colloq chiefly Brit witter, natter, Slang jaw, run on, US run off at the mouth: I wish she'd stop her yapping and give me some peace. --n. 3 mouth, Slang trap, gob, US bazoo: If only Sam would shut his big yap once in a while!
YET|0|adv. 1 as yet, (up) till or until now, so far, thus far, hitherto, to the present (time): She hasn't arrived yet. 2 still, up to this time, up to now, even now, till or until now, to this day: She was there earlier and I think she's there yet. 3 moreover, furthermore, besides, further, still: He made yet another excuse. 4 in the future, in time to come, later, eventually: Despite the life I've led, I might yet get to heaven. 5 still, notwithstanding, anyway, anyhow, nonetheless, nevertheless, regardless, in spite of or despite everything, just or all the same, even so, after all, US still and all: Despite the life I've led, I might get to heaven yet. --conj. 6 notwithstanding, in spite of or despite it or that or the fact, still, nevertheless, but: He goes out every night, yet never oversleeps in the mornings.
ZAP|0|v. destroy, kill, slaughter, annihilate, murder, slay, assassinate, liquidate, erase; shoot, electrocute, Slang rub out, polish off, knock off, bump off, snuff (out), waste, hit, US ice: The baddies got zapped by the ray gun, one after the other.
ZOO|0|n. 1 zoological garden, menagerie, Tiergarten, (safari) park: When I was a child, I enjoyed going to the zoo almost as much as I do now. 2 madhouse, mess; chaos, pandemonium, bedlam, Colloq US three-ring circus, Chinese fire-drill: When my husband and the three children get ready in the morning the kitchen is like a zoo.
